 Let's get into prediction markets today.
 We're gonna dive in deep.
 I think you guys are gonna wanna stick around for this one
 'cause it could have a major effect
 on how we are actually going into the market.
 I wanna start with a couple of things.
 As you guys probably saw,
 we did a video yesterday with Matt Hogan, great guest.
 And I asked him about being exposed to things like pre-stocks.
 This, of course, is one of the things
 when you look at private markets and the exposure
 that you potentially could have,
 things are starting to brew.
 And even Matt said that he thought,
 'cause we pinned him down, he thought 5% exposure.
 That's the kind of exposure you should have
 in your portfolio as you diversify things.
 So, some to the think about as we get out there,
 if you look at the valuations on pre-stocks
 when you talk about things like private markets,
 you can take a look here at what we're talking about today,
 which is gonna be calcium polymarket.
 The market value right there, whether you like it
 or not, calcium still leading the way.
 Polymarket, neck and neck.
 But I think this is gonna be a battle for the ages
 as we start to see polymarket versus calcium.
 If you're a sports guy,
 then you're probably over on calcium.
 If you're in crypto or on politics,
 you're probably over on polymarket.
 And I think that's the thing you're gonna be watching
 right here on Dune Analytics just to give you an example.
 There's calcium, of course, leading the way on sports.
 But you can kinda see polymarket holding their own
 when it comes to crypto and sports, really, not bad.
 But I think this is the area right here
 that we are gonna see polymarket explode again.
 This, of course, will happen during the midterms.
 Most likely we'll get a lot of activity on that.
 That could open up a lot of opportunities
 around prediction markets in general.
 One note, though, is this right here.
 Polymarket partnered with the NHL.
 You can now trade with no fees, no house and no limits.
 So, and that's one of the big factors, I think,
 when you look at what prediction markets
 has been able to do.
 This is where I think polymarket wins the game.
 Now, I'm not saying polymarket is not sponsor.
 They're not paying us.
 They don't ask me to say anything nice.
 We just look at kind of the lay of the land.
 And one of the things that got us a little off-kilter
 was when calcium pulled a little bit of a rug on the market.
 We'll talk about that in a minute.
 But you can kinda see this website went up there.
 They are pushing the DJNs, people that are in the trenches,
 now over to polymarket and really making an even better case
 for their number one competitor as we go out.
 So, this is, I think, going to get a little bit worse
 as we see things continue on.
 And of course, remember, if you're on polymarket,
 they're actually paying you some money on your money
 when you're in there, calcium not doing that in terms of value.
 So, that's another big issue in general.
 One thing, too, if you look at where we are going to see
 the no fee or the competitive fees going on,
 you're going to see it in the agentic AI space.
 And this is a very interesting visualization of this.
 I want to kind of show you guys something.
 This is basically AI's tracking down the best opportunity
 where they can get the best deal.
 And I want to hover over a few things here
 when we get further out.
 And you'll notice right there is Morpho.
 Right there is Moonwell.
 And there you go, Morpho seamless right there.
 So, what it's looking for is the best.
 There's Ave Morpho Universal, Euler Finance.
 We cover all these guys.
 The point is, is that fees matter.
 And it's going to be huge going forward.
 And we're going to get into a lot of that detail around this.
 Before I do that, though, I want to showcase something
 for you guys.
 This is a clip of Chris Christie.
 And as you guys know on this show,
 a lot of times we just follow the money.
 Pretty simple.
 Follow the money.
 You'll find out what's going on in the market.
 Let me play this clip right here from Chris Christie.
 They are not the house.
 There is no house.
 Yes, there is.
 They're taking a cut.
 It's the same thing.
 If it walks like a duck and quacks like a duck, it's a duck.
 If it quacks like a duck and it walks like a duck, it's a duck.
 Chris Christie, defending the gambling cartels is who all call it.
 And that is because Polymarket, CalChi, are both challenging status quo on that.
 And I think prediction markets is going to be huge going forward.
 So we wanted to bring on Ryan Van Grack, who is the VP of legal and global head of litigation over at Coinbase.
 Great to have you, Ryan.
 Great to be on, Parallel.
 And thanks for taking the time to shed light on these very critical and timely issues.
 Yeah.
 So you saw Chris Christie there.
 He's on a tear about this.
 For sure.
 What do you make of his position right now?
 I would say he frames it wrong.
 If it walks like an event contract and talks like an event contract, the opposition led by Chris Christie
 is premise on a fundamental misunderstanding.
 They keep setting this as deciding between a state regulator and no regulator.
 But in fact, the real question is, if you're a derivative and event contract,
 should you have a national derivatives regulator in the CFTC or be subject to a Patrick of 50 state regulators?
 And federal statute makes very clear that it is the CFTC that governs in this space.
 Yeah, well, you've had Selig go out and kind of talk about this very issue that he would stand ground
 on any of this as we start to see states trying to kind of pop up and do this.
 Paul Graywell, one of your colleagues kind of hit it right there on the head.
 And he's talking about Chris Christie, you know way too much law to offer such a problem.
 Federal law is what Congress says it is.
 Not how it quacks.
 I love that one.
 Laws based on quacks is what we have what we got when we had an SEC chair by the name Gensler.
 That was a big problem, you know, back then.
 And of course, now is Chris Christie, the new Gensler for polymarket and Galshi.
 Yeah, you know, Paul, I do think it does reinforce the problem of speaking in generalities.
 Yeah.
 So looking at facts and circumstances, one of the key flaws in that articulation is the fact
 that there are very important differences between a sports book and a derivatives exchange.
 And I like four, but I could certainly go on.
 I know you've got time constraints.
 So who you trade against in a sports book, you're trading and you're betting against the
 House market, you're trading against other market participants.
 The second are the incentive structures.
 A sports book has an incentive for you to lose.
 They only win if you don't make money.
 Right.
 They should market has an incentive for you to win because they're not trading against
 you.
 No.
 The difference is price discovery.
 A DCM has odds that are determined by market forces.
 The price reflects the market views on the likelihood of something happening.
 That's what makes these particularly valuable tools as a source for truth.
 By contrast, the sports books themselves are the ones setting the odds.
 So you don't have the insight from the collective.
 And then a fourth point I'll throw in is that prediction markets allow you to enter and exit
 positions at any point before it settles.
 It's like a security and a commodity space, whereas sports books you typically are locked
 in.
 And Paul, I don't just highlight that because it happens to be true, but what is the
 so what?
 Okay.
 So I've highlighted four differences.
 Why does that matter?
 Those differences are precisely why it makes sense for sports books to be regulated
 one way in this instance by the states.
 And prediction markets to be regulated another way by a federal regulator because those
 regulatory regimes are tailored to those differences and concerns and let me explain.
 Stay law protects consumers against casinos who have opposing interests.
 Federal law is protecting parties by ensuring this market integrity on the exchanges so
 that you're preventing fraud, manipulation in those transactions.
 Those are two very different sets of concerns which require two very different sets of rules.
 Yeah.
 And we're going to get into the angle of insider trading, but I do agree with you is that
 these are two different market structures and they should be organized a little different.
 And I agree really in the sense that the CFTC should be in the position to where it kind
 of governs what's going on within this.
 With that being the case, and you look at the misstep that Kalshi made on the Iran contract
 and this of course was the committee thing.
 Here's Ben Geller.
 He's talking a little bit about this right here.
 And it was really just a committee out was the contract explained to me why that got sideways
 and why everybody is so upset about this.
 The controversy here is about the market rules of the contract.
 It appears that some customers may have been confused about how the committee contract
 would result.
 As you know, it dealt with whether a committee would be out as a leader and the rules provided
 that death was not a means by which the contract would be resolved.
 But ultimately there was some confusion.
 What we see happening is Kalshi has a process for reconciling contracts in these situations
 and it's my understanding they've committed to reimbursing customers, think to the tunes
 of a few million dollars.
 It was notable Paul only because there were many customers who were grieved and upset.
 But these are getting reconciled as you would expect in a DCM in exchange.
 They have market rules, they have rule books, they disclose what they are and it has to
 get reconciled in an orderly fashion.
 Kalshi put out this tweet right here.
 I'll zoom in on that for you guys.
 Prior version of this clarification was grammatically ambiguous is what they're talking about.
 As a customer service measure, Kalshi will reimburs lost value due to trades made between
 these clarifications.
 So it wasn't necessarily reimbursing the full intended amount that many of these traders
 were dealing with.
 So it was really more of a, you know, kind of throwing some water on the fire.
 But my concern was this, when we first saw this was to me the brand damage had been done.
 You have to remember that most of the people who are playing in prediction markets are what
 we call, you know, trenches.
 They're people that are out there in the trenches, they've been trading meme coins now, they're
 moving to, you know, to prediction markets.
 So this seems like it's just an automatic push of that audience right into the arms of
 Polymarket.
 Does Kalshi not see this?
 Yeah, I can't speak for Kalshi, but I don't think it is unique for there to be debates or
 discrepancies about how certain contracts can get resolved.
 If I recall a year or two ago, there's an issue about whether I think Zelensky was wearing
 a suit or not, the concern is not so much that controversies or discrepancies happen.
 It's that whenever that occurs, it would make sense for those who are confused to be,
 to feel aggrieved and upset about their expectations not being met.
 I don't recall how the Zelensky matter was reconciled, but here it appears that Kalshi
 is taking some steps to provide further clarification and at least reimbursing underscores.
 I would have taken, I mean, this is just, you know, our opinion, you know, when you run
 into a buzzsaw like this for Kalshi, they have the means to really go over the top.
 And there's a couple of really good books out there and one that is all about hospitality
 and over delivering on things.
 And I think when you see services like this right here, this would have been a great opportunity
 for Kalshi just to slam dunk on Polymarket.
 If they'd have managed this correctly, it would have been a brand builder for them.
 Maybe would have been the huge separation because they're lacking in being able to get
 into the political angle where Polymarket has kind of won.
 So I think this is going to be something to watch, for sure.
 I want to go into some of these clarifications because many people are talking about these
 death markets, you know, that have been out there, much like what was dealing with Kamehni.
 You look at the current Polymarket right now, U.S. forces to enter Iran by this certain
 date right now, the lead is by end of year, 60%.
 Do you think that this is possibly considered a death market when you look at something like
 this?
 Is this considered a death market?
 Well, you know, I do think it's important to make a distinction between U.S. regulated
 markets and those that are not U.S. regulated or abroad.
 The CFD has authority to regulate prediction markets under the Kamehni's Exchange Act.
 And they have the authority to ban contracts they think are against public interest, which
 can include war assassinations and the like.
 It's my understanding that Kalshi's own rules, for example, prohibit contracts that are
 connected or tied to death.
 So there is a process by which those determinations are made in the U.S. for U.S. regulated markets.
 What happens elsewhere on platforms outside of the U.S. that aren't regulated?
 Different standard, different universe, different ecosystem.
 What about social utility?
 When you look at how a lot of the infrastructure is being built, most of the markets that are
 being made within this, you look at Polymarket right now, politics leads the way.
 But if you go to the breaking tab, you can kind of see there.
 I mean, we've got the India's World Cup, the S&P 500, Yukon, one of your biggest rivals,
 oh my God.
 Right.
 Whatever those numbers are in Yukon, I'm guessing they're too high.
 But as a dual state, I will note, terms of the benefits from the prediction markets,
 I think it's worth flagging two things in particular.
 First of all, for your audience, consistent with crypto, these markets support economic
 freedom and the democratization of finance.
 They allow Americans to invest in topics in their expertise or in interests, which not
 just eliminates barriers to Wall Street, but helps hedge risk, speculate, or engage in
 price discovery.
 And I'll focus on that last point because these prediction markets have proven to be very
 powerful tools to overcome truth, right?
 This decentralized, incentive-based market can help forecast event probabilities, and
 that's because information is inherently more reliable when people have skinned the game.
 Well, it's proven in the political arena, for sure.
 I mean, if you look at, I think it's at the 538 block, which is Nate Silver.
 Yeah, that was a good example of him and also a lot of these pollsters that were really
 challenged in the last election, for sure.
 That's right.
 And people are most familiar with how it proved to outperform traditional election.
 There's clear value in that.
 In the months since, or maybe the year since, but we're also seeing a lot of news sites,
 like CNN and beyond, partnering with these prediction markets.
 Yes.
 Are we utility?
 Well, CNBC, they even announced it all the time.
 That's right.
 You literally see the headline because it's another source for unbiased truth.
 But even more recently, the Federal Reserve issued a paper that found that prediction markets
 provide a rich benchmark that is valuable for researchers, policymakers.
 That is not a paper produced by Polly, Kalshi, or others.
 That is the Federal Reserve independently finding that they're off ability from these prediction
 markets.
 Amazing.
 An unmistakable fact.
 Well, and it's getting to the point where you're going to see more and more integration.
 And it brings me to the point of insider trading, the issue of what someone may know.
 I want to play a clip.
 This, of course, is Scott Galloway, Prof. G, who talks about this.
 He is kind of emerged as a very anti prediction market voice.
 Listen to this clip.
 All it takes is what, $15,000 to sort of drive up the spike in the market.
 Everyone's going to say, "Huh, what does somebody in Bangladesh know about the Bangladesh
 Prime Minister?"
 They can drive a news cycle.
 They can drive a political cycle, a potential actual ouster of the Bangladeshi Prime Minister,
 just with like $15,000 on Polly Market, a harm, and more wars, more destruction, more
 death, whatever, happening because of the availability to gamble on the outcomes.
 All right.
 That's a profitee show, wasn't Professor Galloway, but he has come out on this before a couple
 of times.
 That statement right there, I mean, how would you argue that?
 Insider trading is not a new or unique phenomenon to financial markets.
 It exists in securities markets.
 It has long existed in the rivet of markets.
 The CFTC has existing rules that parties must comply with when it comes to insider trading.
 They're insider trading rules prohibit the trading on material, not public information
 and breach of a duty.
 What's important and it was often missed in this discussion, Paul, is that there are multiple
 levels of protection where you are trading on a U.S. federally regulated marketplace.
 Just as there are in the securities markets, for example, you've got exchange level protections.
 You've got civil protections from the CFTC.
 You even have criminal protections from the Department of Justice.
 And collectively, they are equipped and have a long history of policing this space.
 And I think it's not just that the CFTC is uniquely capable of doing it, but we see very
 recently efforts by Kowshi as a DCM and also by the CFTC to make very clear that they
 are policing this market space. Kowshi disciplines two of their traders and find them thousands
 of dollars for engaging in conduct that it deems to be manipulative and fraudulent.
 And the CFTC is now investigating those same matters.
 Okay.
 So let's kind of paint a picture here.
 If we do see state level guidance or if the states win, if they go against the CFTC and
 you end up prediction markets at the state level, would that end up putting these new
 OB/BBA gambling rules into place where you're literally paying taxes on your losses?
 One of my virtues, Paul, is not being a tax lawyer, so I can't give advice.
 But what I will say is one of the reasons that 50 years ago, Congress gave exclusive
 jurisdiction to the CFTC to prevent a fragmented regulatory structure where entities that
 are participating in the derivative space are subject to 50 different rules and regulations.
 There was long attention historically, Paul, it dates back 100 years ago where certain
 derivatives activities was regulated concurrently by the states and the federal government.
 That experiment failed. It created chaos. And so about 50 years ago, Congress amended
 the commodity exchange act to give exclusive jurisdiction.
 And so every market participant, not just the cow cheese and the polys in the coin bases,
 but anyone who's on these platforms should want uniform rules and regulations, not just
 because it creates certainty, Paul, but also you worry about a race to the bottom because
 if you have 50 different rules and regulations, you don't you worry about regulatory arbitrage
 and different states with different interests having rules that actually aren't in customers
 or investors' best interest.
 Yeah, well, I think this is going to, listen, it's all playing out in front of us right
 now. Of course, along with everything else that's crypto related because, you know, our
 Congress and our laws have never been really built around a digital ecosystem like this.
 So of course, it's going to go there. I want to run a lightning round with you. This
 is our legal addition. One, my first one right here is Casino Lobby will wait until after
 Trump, his, his term here to take on Calci in the Supreme Court. Do you think they will?
 And I think a lot of the cases that are already in the system are working through the appellate
 process and I think if they go to the Supreme Court, it would be during Trump's term.
 During Trump. So you're going to be on no, I did not know that. So I'm going to bank with
 you predicting Gatorade color is not, he is not useful to society. Therefore, it should
 be treated negative by government. What do you think fair to say that that doesn't appear
 to have potential financial consequences. So I'm fine into the know. Yeah, I'm agreeing
 with with with the proposition. Probably market has a better legal argument because it doesn't
 collect fees. What do you think in terms of this whole argument? I'm not sure how that
 necessarily plays a role in the discussions. And I, I don't, I'm not aware of that being
 a meaningful determinant as to whether or not something is a swap. Fundament, it meets
 a definition. It is in bounds, the CFDC regulates it. It's not a swap. It's out of bounds.
 So I don't think that has a material impact on the legal argument. Perfect. States writes,
 the argument has successfully destroyed legal gambling for users in the US, do you think?
 People are conflating these ecosystems, which we talked about. They can coexist. There's
 nothing that's preventing state gambling laws to regulate sports books and sports operate.
 So I think we have to start appreciating these universes can and should coexist. So exist,
 yeah. So really not doesn't really cause any issues. All right. Let's move into retail
 thinks insider trading and market manipulation. Now the crackdown in tradfi is better than
 what's happening in DeFi because DeFi feels like it's a little bit of a wild west right
 now. Yeah. What I would say is insider trading and market manipulation rules. And this
 is from securities ecosystem beyond. Certainly have more experience and precedent in the
 tradfi space. So in that regard, it would be further along. But similar concepts should
 apply in terms of whether it's material, not public information. And what are your duty
 and obligations? Yeah. I think it's kind of the middle of the road right now because there's
 not enough, first of all, there's not enough case law to be even deal with this. I haven't
 seen anything on insider trading on this outside of occasional scenarios. And until we have
 most of the regulatory framework in place, you're not going to have it. So other than what
 the Supreme Court has ruled in already, what will end up being more popular by top degen's
 calcium coin base app or polymarket on the base app? Anything that's on coin base or
 base app is a winner. So I'm going with the base app. I think polymarket over there.
 In the middle. Right. Win way. Right. So I'm going with base, though. I think polymarket
 wins that one. Is there a legal difference between social utility and entertainment consumption?
 For purposes of these issues, the answer is no. The question is not social utility or
 entertainment consumption. It is whether there are potential economic, financial or commercial
 consequences. And I think it is a stretch to suggest things like sports or even entertainment
 don't have significant potential financial consequences. So would you say no? For purposes
 of these matters, I think the answer is no. No. Some of these guys I'm not answering because
 I'm obviously not a lawyer. So I would refer to that. Oil market and Palantir stock stock
 is a war death market. I don't know what the term death market is meant to suggest, but
 I do think the oil market and Palantir stock. No one is suggesting or debating that those
 things shouldn't be traded. There are various marketplaces. The fact that you have war
 like activity going on. It doesn't suggest to me that you should be shutting down the
 marketplace. I think it's important for people to have. It would be the case if you were
 betting on any of the defense stocks to do a certain level, you know, the same kind
 of scenario. States and family values, Republicans are totally fine with gambling as long as
 they take a cut from the list. And I don't write all of these questions just so you know.
 Yeah, I'm staying. I'm not quite sure the question is getting out. I don't want to speak
 for others, but that seems like a loaded question. Yeah. I'm with you. I'll pass on that one.
 It would be a timely, ultimately pointless for Palantir market to launch in the US given
 this climate right now. Palantir is very much in this litigation and this fight. They're
 actively engaged in these lawsuits. I can only suppose given the briefs they're filing
 and actions they're taking. They very much believe in their positions just like Coinbase
 and Calci do. So I don't see any indication or reason why the litigation and that's going
 on would would has deterred them from pursuing their. Yeah. I think they have to. I think
 the market is too big in the United States. Palantir market has such an opportunity here.
 And when you look at the amount that ISIS put into Palantir market, this is a huge, huge
 play for them in terms of the US, for sure. All right. Last one, bottom line, invest in
 VPNs because a lot of people are out there saying I'm just doing it this way. Paul, this
 is the benefit of being a lawyer is I don't have to weigh in it all on. I have a different
 line of work. I'm going to say yes. I'll let you defer out. Easiest way to stop Chris Christie.
 What do you think? Easiest way to stop Chris Christie is through platforms like yours to
 separate fact from fiction. All right. There you go. At the end of the day, facts in
 the law will prevail. And that's the best way to address it. As you could see guys,
 we like to have fun with these questions on the lighting around. Many of them come in
 from our audience. You guys have some ideas for some of these, but listen, it's been great
 having you on today. Thank you so much for coming in. We appreciate it, Ryan. Thanks,
 Paul. Really appreciate the time.
 If you liked this video, hit like and subscribe. Drop a comment down below and also join our
 free private member group, the link is in the description.
