 "Is there any scenario where the debt will be paid off?"
 "Not in real terms, no. They'll pay every penny. It will just be currency less and less
 valuable currency in real terms. I keep reading these things like AI is going to be productivity
 and it's not going to take all the jobs and it's just going to drive deflation way down.
 And I say, "Exactly. And in a debt-based system, that is a mathematical bookkeeping guarantee
 to blow up the entire freaking system. I think we're going to look back in six months,
 12 months, 18, 24 months time. And we're going to say February 20, 26 was the equivalent
 of July 2007. AI is not going to take all the white-collar jobs. AI is going to take
 some jobs and systemic leverage will do the rest. We know exactly how this goes. This is
 inbound, in which case, it's probably going to be a brief moment of a sort of big
 whoosh down." "They ain't ever going back to work on a lot of these things."
 "No. Some people say, "Well, don't worry. They'll figure out what else did Blockbuster
 video do after Netflix?" "It is problematic and I think things, you know, this volatility
 we've seen in the first half of this year is something we've been looking for. I think
 it's going to get a lot worse unfortunately."
 Luke, hi, how are you? "I'm doing well, Peter. How are you today?"
 "I'm good. Luke, we're in unique times. There is a lot of debt being carried by the state
 and individuals. We're facing what seems like a massive disruption coming with AI. But
 I keep thinking about individuals and how people are meant to navigate this. So my starting
 point, I really want to start with the debt and how much debt our governments are holding.
 Is there any scenario where the debt will be paid off?" "Not in real terms, no. They'll
 pay every penny. It will just be currency, less and less valuable currency in real terms."
 Is that because it's mathematically not possible or politically not possible?
 It's both. On the political side, you could always theoretically default, right? So I'll
 use the United States as a specific example where we've got, I don't know, 122% debt to GDP.
 We're running a roughly $2 trillion a year deficit or call it 6%, 7% a GDP deficit. When
 you look at what we're spending on, we're spending, we spend the US federal government spends
 about $5.2 trillion a year. In fact, that's almost exactly what they spent last year. Excuse
 me. Let me back up. Federal government is spending $7 trillion a year. The federal government
 takes in $5.2 trillion in revenues every year. Of that $5.2 trillion in revenues the government
 takes in, and took in last year, roughly 70% of it is going to baby boomers and entitlements,
 Social Security Medicare, roughly another 30% of it or just short of 30% of it is going
 into interest on the debt that we've spent in the past. Another 20% roughly is going into
 defense and right there, 70 plus 30 plus 20, 120% of receipts. So your choices, you
 slash defense, you need to come up with some combination of the three of those because
 everything else we do, roads, education, labor, national parks, blah, blah, blah. It's all
 around air. And so when you look at 120% of receipts, you've got to find 20, just assume
 you don't want to cut anything else. You've got to cut about $1 trillion in spending just
 to get back to flat. And a trillion dollars in spending is roughly 3% of GDP. So you
 got to cut GDP by 3% right away. There's going to be, you know, there's given the leverage
 in the system. There's going to be multiplicative effect. So you could go to the boomers, right,
 the 70% say, sorry, you're not getting your money. We're going to take a trillion dollars
 out of your guys' pocket now. That's a political problem. It's a mathematical problem because
 they will start saving money. They will sell stocks as they sell stocks receipts will
 fall further. You'll actually end up with a higher deficit to GDP as a result of cutting
 that spending paradoxically. You could go to defense and you could say, hey, you're spending
 a trillion now, we're going to cut it to $200 billion. You probably could actually do that,
 given some of the technological advances. It's getting much, much cheaper to be a very
 effective army as we're seeing in Ukraine, Russia, in Yemen with the Houthis who were able
 to run a couple of carriers out of there, the United States with much less expensive weapons.
 But there too, it's political from the standpoint of there's going to be a lot of unhappy
 Congress people. And then it is somewhat mathematical. Again, with debt this high, if you start
 taking big chunks of revenues out of the system, there is leverage in the system. And so you're
 going to very possibly end up with a higher deficit essentially as a percentage GDP because
 your GDP is going to shrink while your obligations don't. So it is both political and mathematical.
 The political is, I would argue, probably the more pressing and the one that's talked
 about more, the more acute the one you'd see first and more the one that's talked about
 more. But the one that's not talked about as much, which is, the math, it's sixth grade
 math. You just run through, go through the federal spanning, take out a trillion dollars
 and just run the model. It's just model in the words. It's literally, it's like, maybe
 it's a little higher in sixth grade math, but it's not much more than a first year investment
 banking guy. It's not more than a first year research analyst. It's very clear what
 happens with that much debt that the system just goes into a debt debt spiral. How long
 or how far away do you think we are from that debt spiral being something that is really
 noticeable to the point of normal people really feeling financial repression?
 Well, I think it depends how you want to qualify that. I think a lot of people want to
 qualify it as, you know, the great financial crisis and that panic or COVID and that panic.
 But I'm not sure that's how it is going to go. And I would say that we're already in
 it. I think we're going to get to a panic phase of that, but I think we're already well
 into it, right? So when, I mean, how you can't, you can't go anywhere without hearing
 somebody talking about how the affordability crisis across the West can't afford housing.
 Quality food is expensive here in America, healthcare is college. When you get into further
 more things like political instability, when you've got, you know, people like Charlie
 Kirk, who's just trying to have a conversation. Get shot when you see the CEO of United
 Healthcare assassinated in the streets of Manhattan. You see the political reactions to these
 things. You see the elections of populists. These are all symptoms of that financial repression
 running out of room and having been run for a long time. So I think we're in it. I think
 it's continuing. I think when does the, you know, the question is, is, is, when is the
 acute stage? And some of that is a function of how much longer you can continue to kick
 this can. Can you accelerate a little further with more financial repression? And then what
 does it look like? Right? Look, if we've reached the acute stage, really useful, put useful
 here, because I think it's intellectually offensive as, as, and morally offensive, to
 be honest. Listen, a nice war with Iran would certainly, you know, sort of be one way that
 governments have historically gotten out of this problem or, again, gotten out of this problem.
 When I look over and see what's happening in Japan, you know, to me, if I keep stick to
 the financial slash macro side of it, beginning in the second half of last year, Japan's bond
 market began issuing a very noticeable warning that things are getting much more acute on
 this front, which is something I've shown to clients, chart, I've shown to clients, if
 you look at the 10 year treasury bond yield, US treasury bond yield, and you subtract the
 10 year Japanese government bond or JGB yield from that, you get a, what we'll call the,
 the treasury spread, right? The spread of treasuries over 10 year JGB yields at that 10 year,
 at that 10 year tenor. And then you compare that to the price of the yen against the dollar.
 And the point here is historically in a developed market and historically between the US and Japan
 certainly, when the spread between the 10 year treasury and the 10 year JGB shrinks, in other
 words, the yield from a 10 year JGB is much more competitive, the yen strengthens, makes
 perfect sense. If you're, you know, the Japanese have been one of the world's biggest creditor
 nations for going on 60, 70, 80 years. They have a ton of money overseas, trillions, four, five,
 six trillion dollars overseas depending how you measure it. For a long time, they couldn't earn any
 return on their money. And so there was this essential giant yen carry trade, the money would get,
 hey, I'm going to go buy American bonds, I'm going to pay the cost to hedge the dollar risk out,
 and I'm still going to make a positive spread. Great. As that spread shrinks between the,
 the treasury bond and the JGB, all they'll see will Japanese investors who have trillions
 overseas go, you know, I don't, I don't need to have my money treasury bond. I don't need my
 money dollars. I'm going to bring it back home because all my liabilities are here, right? I don't
 pay for my groceries or my mortgage rate is stuff in Japan. In dollars, I pay it all in yet.
 Okay. So we've seen a massive compression that spread. And beginning and for a while,
 strengthen the yen against the dollar. And then in that last fall, something really weird and
 something very troubling happened, which is that spread kept collapsing and the yen started
 weakening against the dollar. And everyone across developed market, Americans, Japanese, I think,
 are a little bit more having had a close front row seat, the Asian crisis in the late 90s.
 But everybody talked to in American particular because we're sort of, you know, we're not just,
 we're not just cushioned by, by two oceans from wars, we're also cushioned by two oceans from
 like reality. And any of these types of financial crises have been for years and it's been wonderful.
 When I talk to Americans, they're like, wow, that's never happened before. When I talk to people
 in Brazil, when I talk to people in Argentina, when I talk to people in Turkey, when I talk to
 these emerging markets, they go, oh, that's the easiest chart pattern in the world to recognize.
 That's literally what happened to us before we went into a debt spiral, except this is Japan.
 And the message of the yen falling against the dollar, despite the, the, the JGB getting more
 and more competitive rate versus the treasuries, is that the market has begun saying the rate that
 blows up the Japanese debt isn't that much higher than here. And so I'm not going to take my money
 and put it in yet. I'm going to sell you because the higher JGB yields go, I am going to run into
 before too long a decision. The Japanese are going to have to either go back to yield curve
 control, which is in plain speak, print a bunch of money by all the bonds so that yields never go
 over a certain level. Or they're going to say, you know what? We're going to let the bond market
 crash, yields are going to go up and up and up and up. And that is also a problem for the
 yen at some point because that is eight, not the technical definition of hyperinflation, but a
 technical definition of hyperinflation is once the interest on your debt is so high that you
 can't cover it with your receipts, your hyperinflating, your basic aim to print just to pay the
 interest. And so that is the message of this divergence between tenure treasury spreads versus JGB
 yields, tenure JGB yields with a weakening yen instead of a strengthening yen. And that just
 started in the last, like I said, September, October, November, like this is the, this would be when
 you look at, hey, Luke, if you, if you gave me a list of, if you wanted to follow some, some metrics
 where you would be watching that would begin to tick you, you know, trip off your concern about
 when the acute stage of this whole debt spiral starts, what would you look for? And I would say
 two in particular would be right at the top of that. This chart, you know, this, this relationship
 would be one. And the other one would be US real rates, tenure inverted real rates against gold.
 And that one, you know, tripped off late in 2023, which is that's a real rate to just inflation
 adjusted interest rates. And historically, there has been the higher real rates go when the US,
 the lower gold goes and vice versa. And that relationship broke in 2023. And that was, I think,
 in part also assigned something very big is changing. So when will we see it? I think we're in it.
 I think we're seeing the social aspects to it. I think they're going to get worse. I think
 they need to do more financial repression because of everything we're discussing. And from the actual
 debt mechanic side, I think they've started. And I think it is problematic. And I think things,
 you know, this volatility we've seen in the first half of this year is something we've been
 looking for. I think it's going to get a lot worse unfortunately. This show is brought to you by my
 lead sponsor, Iron, the AI cloud for the next big thing. Iron builds and operates next generation
 data centers and delivers cut-in-edge GPU infrastructure all powered by renewable energy. Now,
 if you need access to scalable GPU clusters or are simply curious about who is powering the future
 of AI, check out iron.com to learn more, which is iren.com. What does this mean for a, like,
 other Steve who's just a normal guy, two kids and a wife and doesn't, he's not a trader like you,
 he's not a money man like you or your friends and he's just somebody who's trying to think,
 how do I get through the next decade? What can he even do about this?
 It's a great question. I think he cannot take on any debt that is not productive.
 I think he can get out of debt as much as he can. And when I say not productive,
 any kind of debt that's consumptive should be avoided. If you can make a borrow money and
 make a positive spread return, whether that's a rental house or piece of farmland or something great,
 do it. But if you're borrowing money to consume, that's a really bad idea. That should be avoided.
 That's kind of step one is to make yourself, quote unquote, harder to kill as a friend of mine
 phrases it. I think one has to take a honest look at one zone. I'm always very big about
 control, which you can control. You can control and not go into debt for stuff you don't need
 for consumer spending. You can control your own physical health. Are you in the best possible
 shape you can? Do you need the state and, you know, a thousand bucks a month in drugs to stay alive
 or whatever? Figure out how to get off of that. There are ways to do that. In a lot of cases,
 it's just harder work. That's something people can control. I think
 beyond that, from a financial standpoint, I think it's understanding two things.
 Number one, that this is inbound, in which case, it's probably going to be a brief moment
 of a sort of big swoosh down, probably not too dissimilar from COVID or not too dissimilar
 from the great financial crisis. But I think in terms of its duration, understanding the context
 that because we have now had a series of escalating crises whereby, you know, we had a stock market
 bubble at Burst, boom, they kicked it upstairs, the banking system, housing bubble at Burst, boom,
 we kicked it upstairs to the government, they backstopped, much of everything. This is now bursting,
 there's nowhere else to kick this upstairs to, you know, unless, you know, unless these aliens,
 you know, that we're all hearing about now, they're going to bring these aliens in or, you know,
 we're going to basically, they're going to bail us out with Mars, Mars bucks or whatever the hell it is.
 That's important context for just an average Joe or Steve in our case here, right? Which is,
 yes there could be a whoosh down, I think it's going to be whoosh down. But in any whoosh down,
 this sovereign debt very quickly becomes unrepairable for the reasons we let off with, for example,
 in the United States, we can't cover interest and entitlements if receipts fall at all without
 printing money. And so then it becomes a very simple, a very simple set of analyses for the
 average Steve, which is, okay, this thing's inbound. I've made my balance sheet as good as I can,
 my health as good as I can. You know, I think financially it makes sense to be overweight cash and
 gold right now. I want to be, I want to get to Bitcoin, but I think Bitcoin goes down in this
 initially first. So again, I'm, I'm, I'm on record for being probably too cute on that front,
 let's set that aside for the moment. I want to keep my balance sheet really good, conservative
 and liquid, because this debt here, you know, the fact that we have kicked it up to the sovereign
 and that governments do not go broke, nominally, they print the money, means any this, this,
 this debt problem gets acute and we get some sort of whoosh. It's going to last for maybe months,
 probably more like weeks. And there's going to be great opportunities for Steve if he is in a good
 balance sheet position, not overlavered in good health and has some capital to go up and buy up
 some assets on the sheet during that months or weeks that there's a whoosh down, because
 there is, in my opinion, zero chance governments are going to stand aside for very long at all and go,
 oh, we have this whoosh down. Oops, now we don't even enough receipts to pay our interest expense and
 our entitlements and defense. So you know what, we're just going to bring all the defense home and
 fire them all and we're going to lay off all the baby boomers. We're just not going to pay their
 health. There is zero chance that's going to happen. Here's how it's really going to go. Oh God,
 whoosh crisis. We need to do something, control Pete, right, print. And that's kind of how it's
 going to go. And then they deal with the fallout on the back end, of course, which is, you know,
 Washington's repeat back to some of the social issues we're discussing more, which again,
 that's why it's important to be in as great a shape as you can, as much sovereignty over your
 health as you can, because guess what's going to go up? The price and necessities. Whatever you're
 paying for health care now is going to go up and it's going to go up and it's going to go up. Like
 that is, that's, that's just how this goes. And you know, if, if, you know, having acts, gaining
 and increasing those assets because you're able to see us, it's, it is offensive to have a money
 system that someone has to think this way. But this is the reality in which we're living in.
 So that's if I'm the sort of an average Steve, that's, that's what I would do is just, you know,
 understand that we're in one of these types of setups and be conservative of your balance sheet,
 control what you can. And you know, be, be, be, be nimble if you care. Yeah. So, so it's
 interesting that you talk about being in cash because sometimes before a wash down, there's a
 wash up. And so certain people sat there maybe with certain assets, equities, I've kind of sat
 there waiting for that run up, but you actually think nails are trying to be moving into cash.
 Oh, I've got, yeah, I, I think, look, I think for the average guy, you know, if you don't want to
 try to be a trader and, and I get why you don't, I think it's really important to understand the
 context that we're in, right? So we're at the end of a hundred year debt cycle. We're at the end
 of a 50 60 year monetary system. We're at the beginning of a great power competition, some new
 Thucydidian competition between the US and China, perhaps. We are in a technological acceleration,
 unlike we've seen in 10,000 years in humanity with AI, and we can touch on that. And that is,
 if anybody tells you that they, you know, when you overlay these factors, and oh, by the way,
 we've got the most upside down demographics in forever, really in history. We've got a situation
 with a richest generation in history. The boomers are the, you know, are receiving all the government,
 they, you know, basically 80% of government money. And we've got a situation where it,
 certainly in the US, I suspect in the US and UK as well, these entitlement obligations look like
 Vymar German gold reparations, war reparations, right? It's their off balance sheet. And they're,
 we don't owe boomers dollars. We owe them hips and knees and doctors time and social security
 is inflation adjusting. This is, this is very similar to what Vymar Germany was in when the
 Allies said, hey, you owe us money, but you owe it in gold. You owe it in gold rights marks. And so
 the Germans are print money and gold go up. And it was, you know, that's what we're doing. And
 that's the, so when you lay these things out, if anybody tells you they know exactly how this is
 going to go, run in the other direction, including me, like, I have no freaking idea. The path.
 I am very, very high conviction at, at the end destination. And that then gets to this view of
 high level of cash. Like, I don't want to be fully invested in this world because I just have no
 idea how this can go. In fact, for, for, for the average Steve, if you don't want to pay any
 attention to this, what I've been telling people is, I think you want to set up a portfolio from
 financial set standpoint, set up a portfolio. What I call Jacob Fuguer portfolio, FUGGR. He was a,
 I'm going to get this wrong, because I was a Dutch or Belgian merchant from early Renaissance.
 At any rate, he said you put 25% of your money in gold, 25% of your money in cash, 25% of your
 money in what would essentially today be blue chip equities with a good dividend and 25% of your
 money in real estate, productive real estate. And then you just rebounds as events happen. And
 what you're doing with that portfolio for the average Steve is you are making yourself from a
 financial standpoint impossible to kill. Two things are going to kill you in financial, right? You're
 going to get overlavered and you have deflation, or you're going to be underlavered and hyperinflation.
 Those are your two tails, right? Let's take the one, the, the, the left tail over here, hyperinflation.
 You know, hyperinflate currency dies. Gold goes to the moon. Your stocks go to the moon. Your cash
 becomes worthless. And your real estate actually starts good and then doesn't do well at all because
 in hyperinflation, real estate falls to cash transactions because nobody issues mortgages in hyperinflation.
 You live, right? Your gold does well. You rebalance at that point. You live. You live. You end up with
 more on the other side of the valley than you started with. Let's take the other extreme. Great
 depression. Your cash does great. Your gold does great. Your real estate gets crushed. Your stocks
 get crushed. Here too, you're going to end up with more than you started with. You survive the
 worst that could possibly happen. Everything else in the middle, you're fine. So when I look at
 for the average person, the set of macro circumstances and forces and overlay them over each other,
 that to me, look, if I didn't do what I do with 30 years experience doing what I'm doing,
 that's exactly how I, I mean, it's what I tell my, my non-financial friends, my, my, my steves,
 my everybody that is not my business with a long experience, hey, what should I do with my money?
 Do this and just then go do what you do for your day job and do it really well and take care of
 your health and take care of yourself and spend your time on stuff that actually frigging matters
 rather than your money. So hedge every scenario and go and enjoy life. Just take the tails off,
 right? Just take the two tails out, like only two things kill you, right? Hyperinflation,
 great depression, those kill you. Other than that, it's all noise for the average steve.
 And this scenario is one that I've seen that repeated many times, I look even in my lifetime,
 you mentioned the global financial crisis in our way to COVID. Yeah, it feels like this
 just cycle that gets a little bit more extreme every time. Is there any way out of this?
 It's like, I know you talked about earlier some of the things they could do, but like,
 if a politician really wanted to get out of these horrific cycles that really benefit the few
 and not really the many, is there any way of getting out of it? Sure, yeah, the Austrians are
 very clear about that. The Austrian economists I've tend to find are, you know,
 that they are, they are, they are very, very right in the ultimate long run. They're almost always
 right, the long run. The challenge is that it's, you know, economics is not a science no
 matter what the economists want to tell you. It's a branch of moral philosophy, right? You are not,
 you know, it's not like, hey, I'm going to take this napkin. I'm going to drop it. Okay. Every time I
 drop it, gravity reacts the same way. That's science. Economics is like, well, if I tear this in
 half and give some to them and some to them, what's that person going to do with it? It's a moral
 philosophy. It's an incentive structure. It's a, it's a different decisions. And that's why the,
 you know, that's where the, in the short run, the Austrian economists have a hard time because they
 are very harsh. And so, yeah, there's ways out of it. The Austrians, what's, is it, is it
 Von Mises who said the only way to stop a, a credit bubble once it has started is either voluntary
 withdrawal from the credit bubble or the complete destruction of the currency involved. Yeah,
 that's it. In other words, in, in plain English, either you stop the credit growth, you stop the
 credit bubble for unproductive things and you deal with the economic and political consequences of
 something that makes the great depression look like a tea party or you hyperinflate the currency.
 That's it. That's those are your choices in the long run. The only question is how fast it
 takes to get there. Yeah, they're not great choices. And it's, it's funny because even, I mean,
 I look here in the UK and I feel like we're starting to resemble more like a third world country
 in certain ways. We're trending towards being looking like an emerging market rather than
 prosperous Western liberal democracy. And it feels like to me that people don't really want to accept
 or take the pain of what is required. So they'd rather just like you say kick the can down the road.
 Yeah, and that's, that's the human nature of it, right? And, and you know, when you have,
 when you have liberal democracies, even if they're maybe becoming a little bit more
 illiberal, they used to be. That's the challenge. The people get a vote. And, you know,
 you know, Turkey's don't vote for Thanksgiving. As we say here in America.
 But think you back to our friend, Joe and Steve. You talked about the size. You talked about
 the carry trade, the Japanese and carry trade. But Steve and Joe aren't market people. How will
 they know what they're going to be the signals for them that things are potentially getting serious?
 Is that not even important? Is it so serious now that like everyone should be preparing right now?
 I think everyone should be preparing right now for them. Because again, I think liberation
 day last year is a perfect example, right? We had liberation day on April 2nd now. March, March
 started to have some bumps, right? Love last year. And, you know, stocks were down a bit.
 Initially bond yields went down in the United States. Ten year bond yields went down. Then they
 stopped going down, which is exactly what we thought was going to happen. And then trumped us
 liberation day, right? That was April 2nd. And for like five straight trading days,
 stocks down, dollar down, bonds down, right? So that is emerging market third world capital
 flight behavior. Currencies down, stocks are down, and bond yields are going up. That's a disaster.
 That lasted all of seven trading days. And then trump, Taco, right? Trump always chickens out.
 Why? Because the United States treasury market, the deepest, most liquid market in the world,
 dysfunctioned so severely, it was literally,
 Harley Bassman created the move treasury volatility index. And he's still on Twitter,
 a convexity maven. And on April 9th, literally seven trading days later, maybe not even six trading
 days, he publishes the move volatility in today index. And it's like like 187 or 178 or something.
 He goes literally humans cannot deal with that kind of volatility and leverage system. And so what
 will now happen is everybody will simply degress. And the only other times it was like that was like
 the 1987 crash, 9/11, and like the first weeks of COVID, right? So literally
 six trading days after liberation day, which the average Joe and Steve would have been,
 like, I was just Trump being Trump. And okay, so the market's down. Who cares? You know, whatever,
 down 5%, down 7% it was, SMP, maybe it's 10 or 15, who cares? In the grand scheme of things,
 there's nothing burger, right? Nothing, you'd be like, oh my god, it's happening. And the treasury
 market dysfunction within six days. And by the time Joe and Steve even noticed anything, it was like,
 oh, well, Trump tacoed and now stock go up every day and the dollar goes down. And I think it's
 going to be very similar where something will happen. And they, the treasury market will dysfunction,
 whatever, it will be so quick, the swoosh down back up that I don't think the average Joe and Steve
 probably, I just think they need to sit tight. Yeah, I don't even think they'll notice.
 And how much do you think about AI with this? Because I feel like Luke right now we're in this
 certainly the last two weeks have felt like almost like an AI acceleration phase that the number
 of new innovations and technologies and changes that are coming to quite insane, but also commentators
 coming out. There's the AI CEO of Microsoft saying yeah, 12 to 18 months, the majority of white
 color jobs are just not going to exist. We're seeing it here and I know people are losing their
 jobs to AI and those jobs aren't coming back. But there's also talk of the masses of productivity
 gains that are going to be seen. So like, how do you balance the potential of AI to be
 else to plug some of this with massive productivity gains and massive GDP growth versus the
 massive job displacement that might come with it? How do you how do you even consider that?
 You know, for me, I, A, I have an accounting degree, right? So I look at everything in debit credit
 two sides, everything, everything in, in finance, everything in life is a debit in a credit, right?
 You've got a balance sheet in life. If you're in A hole for a long time, sooner or later the other
 side of that balance sheet, right? Karma is real. It catches up to you. I also love Charlie Munger
 of Berkshire Fahme's admonition to invert, always invert, right? Take the other side of it.
 And I think it's what a lot of people, let me get, and one last thing that informs my views of AI,
 which is the physicist Albert Bartlett once said the greatest shortcoming of the human race is the
 inability to comprehend the exponential function. You know, we as a species are uniquely tuned after
 10,000 years to frigging nothing ever happening, right? You know, they were like, you know, 800 million
 people live at the time of Christ, like 800 years later, there were like 820 million people and
 another 100 years, you know, another 500 years after that, there are 800 million people, right? So
 things moved very slowly for most of the time in which our sort of wiring was programmed.
 And so when I apply all of those things to AI, I am struck by the level of complacency around
 what it's going to do in a two, you know, in a debit credit balance sheet of the world,
 the financials, the system of the world, the economy of the world. Is it going to try productivity?
 No question. Massive productivity. The problem is on the other side of that balance sheet.
 And that is, okay, I look and theory can create some agents and they can do all of my tax prep and
 they can do all of my, you know, all these services, that's I keep hearing, all these services,
 white collar services are going to go away and it's going to accrue to me. Great, except the account
 and I just laid off is now going to go into foreclosure on his house because we are in aid and you
 go back to the beginning, we're an 11 system. White collar work around the West, I would bet what
 percentage of white collar workers owns their home free and clear? Do you think in the UK and the
 US and in Europe? Basically, tiny, tiny, tiny, and those that, yeah, certainly among active workers,
 right? I would suspect the boomers, a lot of the boomers, former white collar workers, probably
 a lot of them own their houses free and clear, but of sort of the ones that are about to be disrupted,
 they almost none of them do. Almost none of them own their cars, right? Car payments are off the
 charts, credit cards, you know, student loans are not dischargeable in bankruptcy in America,
 by the way. So you can't default out of those. And so as I've laid off my account next door,
 and I heard else does because everyone else got the, well, now his house goes into foreclosure
 and the lawyer who lives down the street, so does his house.
 And there's no buyers because there's nobody needs, like the white collar, again, it's not that
 everybody has to get fired. In fact, the title of my report for clients last week was no AI is not
 going to take all the white collar jobs. AI is going to take some jobs and systemic leverage will
 do the rest. We know exactly how this goes. What percentage of subprime mortgage holders defaulted
 on their loans? In the grand scheme of things, it wasn't that much. Was it like that, what's that
 bring to this? Yeah, it wasn't that much, maybe. So that's the point that, and that goes back to,
 you know, Munger's point of invert and Albert Bartlett's point of humans inability to comprehend
 the exponential function. You take, you send US unemployment from wherever it is today for 4.1,
 4.2, I don't know, to six percent, maybe, maybe five and a half. That, you know, in my opinion,
 that'll be more than enough, given the leverage in the system. Mortgage delinquencies up,
 card delinquencies up. Okay, well, the banks are levered too. There's points of leverage at every system.
 The homeowners levered. The bank on the mortgage is levered. All the way, the government is levered,
 right, and that's another thing. People say, "We'll be just like the 90s." In the 1990s,
 America was running a surplus at the fiscal level. We had nothing but fiscal space. And so, for me,
 AI is, I think people are right to be scared of AI, but I think they're scared of AI for the wrong
 reason. I keep reading these things like, you know, AI is going to be productivity and it's not
 going to take all the jobs and it's just going to drive deflation way down. And I say, exactly.
 And in a debt-based system, that is a mathematical bookkeeping guarantee to blow up the entire freaking
 system. Right. That's how, yeah. Yeah, so there's a conflict between 25, 30-year mortgages in a
 world where there's huge rapid job displacement. And it doesn't need to be, you know, I don't know, 50% of
 white-collar jobs gone over the next 18 months. It could be 5%, it could be 10%. And that kind of thing
 can do what happened in 2008. And could that essentially itself then be the trigger for what goes
 into the woosh kind of acute phase? Yeah, I think it is going to be. I really think, and I totally
 agree with you that I think we're going to look back in six months, 12 months, 18, 24 months time.
 And we're going to say February 2026 was the equivalent of July 2007, which if you're not
 intimately familiar with that, you know, green spans started raising rates in June of '04.
 Man, into a housing bill. June of '05, home prices peak and start rolling over. Nobody
 even knows that till a second half of '05 to look back at your bill. Oh, home prices starting to go down.
 Even then, meh, late '06, the subprime delinquencies and defaults are starting to take up,
 but oh, $60, $80 billion for the system at most, no problem. May of '07, Bernanke gets in front of
 Congress. Says, you know, it's subprimes are hurt, but everything is contained. Everything is,
 it's not going to create a broader sit and problem for the entire system. July of '07,
 two Bear Stearns mortgage funds that had invested heavily in subprime orages go from three
 billion in assets to zero, basically overnight. And I can tell you, I was on a sales trading
 desk at the time. Everybody on Wall Street was like, wait, what? It was like that moment where
 the sheriff seized the shark in jaws. Everybody on Wall Street goes holy cow. Like, how is that even
 possible? This is a way bigger disruption than any of us thought. And I think that's what
 February 2026 will come to be seen. And I think we're in the very early days of that. And I think
 that's what we're, this volatility we're seeing is exactly what that is. When you get volatility like
 this in stocks and in crypto and in gold, these are very major tectonic plates pushing on each
 other, trying to figure out what does this mean. Something very big just happened. We don't know
 how to position for it. But I think it is a, I don't think people comprehend how disruptive it's
 going to be because they're not looking at there. They're still, the debate is still, oh, it's
 going to take all the jobs or it's a bubble. Nothing's going to happen. No, no, no, no. You need to
 understand your context in a highly leveraged system. It'll take some jobs and that that will be
 more than enough. And critically to your point around the bush down, the thing that is really troubling,
 this isn't like, hey, we just need to get a shot and everyone can go back to work. They ain't ever
 going back to work on a lot of these things. No, somewhat, you know, people say, well, don't worry,
 they'll figure out something. What else did Blockbuster Video do after Netflix? What did the
 strip malls do after the internet? Like, are we all going to become tanning salons? It's like everywhere,
 I go, like, there's tanning salons ever, right? Tanning salt, what, what's the white collar
 equivalent of everybody becoming tanning salons? Are we going to become painters? Come on. Like,
 I think you understand, I certainly understand, I live in a part of the country, the Rust Belt,
 we've lived through this once and it might be a huge advantage to me for this cycle, which is
 to me, this is so reminiscent in almost every layer to when the United States let China and WTO
 or China, Senate WTO, and we off short, blue collar jobs to China. That was just an AI
 productivity boom. That's all it was. You know, there's a very little functional difference between an
 AI agent doing something in hours for no cost versus, you know, a Chinese factory worker doing
 something in a day instead of a couple of weeks for, you know, for basically no cost and no
 environmental and no regulatory. It's just a matter of degree. And I can tell you how that went.
 35% of the manufacturing jobs went in seven years. They never came back. They still have never
 come back. This is 25 years later now. You know, white middle aged Americans killed themselves
 at unprecedented rates, much more akin to those in 1990s, Russia, when they lost their meaning.
 Suicide, alcoholism, overdoses. More than a million Americans did in 12 years, oh wait, to 2020.
 And so I'm very concerned about this, not just from an economic standpoint.
 Because again, once these jobs go away, the Fed's response is, well, let's just print money.
 Print money for what? What's going to, like all you're going to do is bid up asset mark. Okay, well,
 are you going to do UBI? That might be where this goes. That then has huge political implications,
 as huge inflationary implications. There is a period of time between where we are now,
 and sort of this utopia that technologists point to, they just kind of pretend like it's not going to
 happen. I think it's freaking high. Because the job numbers that came out last month were
 slightly concerning because it was on both ends, right? The rise in unemployment and
 and there was a, and the lack of new job creation. And even if we, I mean, you're talking about
 this, it feels like an imminent problem, but it's actually going to be a scaling out of many jobs
 over the next 18 months. So it's like a whole period to rise, rise through. And I don't really know
 what options the state has beyond UBI. Yeah, I don't know. I don't know, because,
 yeah, there was a, there was an article I don't know which magazine was. It was a senior British
 barrister talking off the record. What's that? It was in the spectator. It was a KC. Yes,
 he said, I'm very good at what I do. That's one. I'm very good at what I do. And this thing
 is way better than me. We're screwed. And it's fascinating. All of the cope, it's such,
 that I hear from a lot of white-collar people, because it sounds exactly like what the blue color
 guys were saying here in Cleveland in the rust belt in 2001. Yeah, yeah, the Chinese are cheaper,
 but the quality sucks, right? Yeah, the AI is cheaper, but you know, it's still, it's still
 imagines things. Well, show me a piece of technology that isn't getting 10 times better a year,
 every year, right? Certainly on AI front, right? But Moore's Law, right? Moore's Law doubles,
 this is Moore's Law has been inflate for what, 50 years, you know, compute power doubles every 18
 months. Great. If it's not perfect today, right? It will be. You know, the blue color guys,
 oh, you know, yeah, the Chinese, okay, you know, they'll make cheap stuff really well, but they're
 never going to move up scale. Well, guess what they did. And that's just like, well, AI, you know,
 it can do some of these easy tests, but it's, it's not going to do any more complex tests. And,
 you know, in the last four weeks, we've had these, you know, guys in that world go, oh, my God,
 it's doing these complex tasks like really fast. I'm not even needed for my job anymore.
 And in the meantime, while you and I go to bed and get a night's sleep, the machines are just
 getting better and better and better and better. And so there's this level of denial. There,
 there's this level of, you know, inability to comprehend the exponential function because it's
 moving so fast. And I don't, like you said, I don't know what options they have. This is so
 fundamentally altering because again, we are in a debt-based system. Everybody took out a mortgage
 on whatever under the assumption of a world that is about six months, 12 months, 18, 24 months,
 pick your time from no longer existing. And you're still going to owe that debt, but you may not
 have that job. And so it is a, it's a huge political issue, huge political issue, huge monetary
 economic issue. You know, there's been research on UBI. It's extremely discouraging. You know,
 yes, it actually people end up worse off. Yes, they get to live, but the quality of life decreases,
 the meaning decreases, the rates of suicide go up, mental, and all these problems. So
 and oh, by the way, the very bedrock of our entire financial system, our Western government bonds
 that under aren't going to be able to be repaid without printing massive money because of AI
 within, I don't know, you know, I just pointed out to start that the true interest expense, right,
 just our interest and our entitlements are right around 100% of receipts. AI's going to crush
 receipts because there's half a receipts over 50% of receipts in America are employment related.
 And that's all white collar because we all went to service because you know, we had to get out
 of these dirty blue collar jobs, give all those to China. So I am very concerned about
 how this goes for the next six months, 12 months, 18 months, 24, both from an economic standpoint.
 And I agree with you, the ultimate is probably some version of printed UBI.
 But then, you know, where things get darker is do you really think they're just going to hand
 people money without a quid pro quo? And what's that quid pro quo? And who's making the decision
 of that quid pro quo? And what does that drive? And how are we going to keep voting rights when everybody's
 just getting straight frickin, you know, money from the government? How can you have a, how can you
 have a democracy when a quorum of the voters are just getting like literally money straight from
 under no pretense? I don't know, but I, but I'm, I've seen enough of human nature at my age
 and certainly in the last 20 years to know that like, you know, we're not going to hold hands and
 become painters and artists and sell the stuff to each other online. Like that's, that's, that's
 polyanish. Yeah, I don't want to press you too hard on this, but my sense is that you feel
 the cracks from this is imminent in that you said we may look at Feb 26 like June or eight.
 You feel like it's that imminent? We, or is the signs already there in what you're looking at
 that the AI is going to be creating this pressure on the housing market and such.
 So July of '07, yeah, I think, yeah, I do think it's imminent. I know, I do think it's that
 imminent of, are we talking weeks or months? You've got to get your shirt together.
 I guess prime, I think it's prime once. I think it's prime more months. And the reason I think
 that is is, you know, again, to quote Charlie Mugger, you show me an incentive. I'll show you the
 outcome. People say, well, they're not going to move it that fast. Corporate America is paid stock
 options, quarterly earnings, tremendous pressure. And if one company, a sector does something and
 it gets rewarded for it, management better figure out how to do it or they're going to get fired.
 They're going to roll this thing out so fast. And it's just going to keep getting better. And better,
 I mean, last, forget, last earlier this week, I heard a major American bank had a training program
 for a white collar field in, I won't elaborate. Been there a bunch, they work, they bring in college
 kids, they work for two years and then they either, you know, move on or they go to a different part
 of the bank. They're getting rid of the program. Literally three months ago, they thought they
 were going to be bringing in multiple tens of more kids for this year. Not only are they not doing
 that as they plan for this year, but the ones who started last year that were supposed to have
 another year, they're getting let go too. Now, it's like a ladder. It's like they've taken the first
 wrong off the ladder. They take the first wrong off the ladder and they didn't, they did not
 according to my friend. They didn't say we're doing this because of AI. Well, my friend said,
 is they were really squirrely about not explaining why, what changed. And so, you know, I've been doing
 this a long time. So, this is speculative and intuitive, but it's probably right. I've learned
 to trust my intuition, which is if they go into that, the bank management went into that meeting and
 said, we're doing this because of AI. Do you know what happens in morale? Do you know what happens
 to confidence? It implodes. But that's just common. And it's not going to take two years.
 It's going to take six months, maybe, until something like that happens. And, you know,
 everyone's going to go to the bar on Friday and go, yeah, hey, did you hear about Joe? He, you know,
 that he was supposed to be good for two years. And, you know, what, they just got rid of his
 program. And now he's got his student loan debt. He's got his mortgage or his apartment. He's
 got his car loan. And he doesn't know what that he's going to do. What did it? Well, probably AI.
 And eventually they're going to say it's going to be AI. Some of the companies are already saying.
 I mean, so it's, it's so explosive last year that I think it was in the New York,
 Tuesday, the New York Times of the Journal. Amazon is literally telling its people not to refer to
 robotics or AI taking jobs. They know what a political disaster this is going to be. And more
 importantly, they know that there's great organizational risk. If you let too many of your people know
 that they're disposable before you're ready to dispose of them, the organization collapses.
 So it's this really tricky management problem. And it's a, you know, my guess
 it leads to a conclusion that one of the things we should look for is consumer confidence,
 which is sort of already pretty low here in the US, which is very, again, it's another divergence.
 Historically, US consumer confidence is just like the S&P with a slight lag. S&P is basically still
 at all time highs and consumer confidence is it like, you know, GFC levels or, you know, really
 low levels on what's quite that low. But I think I think some time in the next six to 12 months,
 we're going to see a consumer confidence level that is like literally like they're going to have
 to create like a negative line on the chart. It's going to plummet from low levels. Some people
 and go, that's weird. And I think that'll be the first warning of like the 100th monkey, so to speak,
 has just been told or has just realized that oh, like look to your left, look to your right,
 like at least one of you and maybe two of you are going to be here in six months, 12 months,
 18 months. And that's about enough time ahead where people will start, right? If you go to the
 average Joe or average Stephen, say, look, your job is safe. Great. I feel good. Your job might not
 be safe in six months or 12 months. What does Joe or Steve go home? Honey, stop spending. We need
 to save our money. That's these are the kind of things that you want to look for. I think we're
 probably going to see him pretty soon, unfortunately.
 It feels like there's this horrible conflict between the deflationary benefits of AI and the
 need for the government to have inflation to wipe out the debt. These are two kind of like
 opposing forces that are coming to a head really. Oh, yeah. And it's not just right. If this was
 1995 and the US government's running a surplus and right, like you're going to have a bunch of
 mortgage defaults, you're going to have a bunch like not to say who cares, but from a systemic
 standpoint, who cares? It doesn't matter, right? There's going to be winners and be losers.
 They'll find a clearing price. We know this, right? This was late 80s, early 90s. You had the,
 that's an out crisis here, right? Like you had real estate blow up here, but our fiscal books were
 in a great position that the GDP was low. They worked it out now. A deflationary woosh calls into question
 the solvency of the United States government, the UK government, the entirety of Europe, Japan,
 these powerful mass of sovereign entities are all, you know, China's in no great shape either.
 It's just that they have a closed capital account. They got, you know, way more gold with their
 people. So like they're actually probably in somewhat of a better aggregate balance sheet, but
 they're going to have a huge demand in political problem too. So that's the thing that people just
 aren't thinking about. Western sovereign debt, it's not even a question. It is unrepairable
 in a deflationary woosh, you know, in that period of time between today and sort of Nirvana where
 everything is plenty and free that, you know, Elon and others have talked about. In this intervening
 period of time, and I don't know if that's six, it's not six months, but it's probably 12,
 1824. I don't think it's 36 months, it might be. But in that intervening period in time,
 the very bedrock of the sovereign debt that underpins the entire banking system of the entire
 Western world, they're unrepairable in anything resembling real terms. So either
 print the money or default, that's it. Like it AI brings that decision forward because,
 look, we ran up in the United States, ran up 30, where we had $38 trillion in debt, and we got
 a giant pile of nothing to show for it, right? I mean, a couple of bailouts, a couple of stupid
 wars, we can get anything. Like, yeah, it is AI's deflation is problematic enough, but the pace of
 AI deflation, it is simply incompatible, incompatible with sort of everything we know in the
 financial system as it says today. And if you want to be in cash for when that wish comes,
 you still don't want to be in cash too long because if they print their way out of it,
 that's going to inflate way that cash itself. So you're going to need some hard assets.
 Yeah, I'm probably sitting personally. I've probably got between cash, gold, I still have a
 little bit coin, right? So cash and gold alone, I'm probably over 50% of my liquid net worth now.
 Bitcoin would probably, you know, it's, you know, a few percentage points.
 My view is I'm going to be able to buy Bitcoin back a lot cheaper in that wish, something I'll
 Yeah, I'll code. And yeah, it's not going to last long though. I fully can see it. I'm being too
 cute. You know, the challenges is right now, it's very hard for the policymakers, even if they were
 good second derivative thinkers and could see this. And there's a couple. There's one or two here
 and there that I think can see this. But most of them can't. Most of them are just, they're not
 very good thinkers. Um, even if they could see it, they've got the same sort of problem.
 Politically, how do you get up at a podium and preempt this? What do you do? Hey, everything's fine
 right now. But in 12 months, half of the jobs are going to be gone. And so we're just going to
 preempt this with you, yeah, they're screwed, right? Literally markets. So the ones that do know
 this, they can't say anything. This is like no, like this is like no one in Asteroids going to
 just like the movie Armageddon, right? With Bruce Willis and and and Billy Bob Thornton and Ben
 Affleck, right? You know, there's a scene where like, okay, they realize the earth killers coming in.
 The earth killer and like, okay, does anybody else know? And one guy in an offhand comment
 that means like, yeah, there's, you know, there's eight telescopes in the world that can see it right
 now. We control seven of them. And they're like, great. This gets classified. Boom done. We can't say
 anything because the second we say something, it's kind of the similar where, I mean, can you
 even imagine that press guy? Hey, AI is coming. 12 eight, you know, in 12 18 months, half of your
 jobs are going to be gone. But don't worry, you can be a painter. Don't worry, you can be an artist,
 you can find meaning finally. And here too, it's, it's, it's amazing, the hubris of sort of a lot
 of the policymakers and the financial types, et cetera, who say this. Blue collar workers lost their
 meaning in the rust belt. Guess what they did? They drank and drug themselves to death and shot
 themselves in the Soviet Union in the 1990s, Soviet Apparachics in a gigantic system lost their
 meaning. What did they do? Drank themselves to death, drug themselves to death, shot themselves to
 death. Let's go back a hundred years. Let's go to the plane's Native Americans. I have a friend who is
 a member, an elder of planes Native American tribe, spent a number of years and about 10 years
 ago doing some really cool sort of survival stuff amongst other things. And like he tells the
 story, they were, these were the free nomadic people out in the planes. In theory, they have a
 better way of life. Hey, you're going to have running water, you're going to have supermarkets,
 you're going to have all of these things, you have a better way of life. What do they do when their
 way of life changed? Drank themselves to death, shot themselves to death. There is something
 fundamentally about humans and especially men and middle aged people needing meaning, needing a
 reason to get up and provide for their loved ones, their partners, their children, their parents.
 And when you take that away, you take something fundamentally deep inside away, no matter what sort
 of the tech artists and, you know, optimists want to tell you, I'm not trying to be a doomer,
 I'm just being a realist. And you've got across spans of time, Native Americans, across spans of
 political systems, the Soviets, across, you know, America, the blue collar. And consensus is like,
 oh, it's going to be different this time. Don't worry, we're just going to take everybody's job in
 18 months and everyone's going to be fine. Like, what? What? What are you talking about? Do
 you have no idea of history? Sorry, I'm getting a little worked up now because no, I'm with you,
 man, because like I've already seen it. I mean, I'm already seeing it. And they're growing the state
 at a time where they need to be shrinking the state. They're raising taxes at a time where people
 can't afford it. I've seen it in London. I've got friends. It's not that they're not getting good
 offers on their houses. They're not getting in viewings, Luke. People are losing their jobs and
 unable to find jobs to because their job's not coming back. It's not like, oh, I can go and work
 for the other company because they're getting rid of them as well. And it's like, I talk to you,
 you know what's going on. Ray Dalio has been warning us. The AI companies are telling us what is
 coming. And nobody in a position of political power is coming out and saying, this is real,
 this is a situation. We need to hunker down and be prepared for it. No, they're just doing the
 opposite. I'm with you. And I'm concerned for myself and my family. I'm concerned for my friends
 and my loved ones. I'm concerned for everybody. It's, it's hardly. And there was, when I was,
 I don't know, this is a long time ago now. I had a friend who was in a horrific car crash
 with his wife. And she was killed instantly. And he survived, had horrific injuries.
 And after, you know, sometime down the road, we were having a frank conversation. And
 that subbed that that horrific incident came up. And he made this comment in passing
 where he said, you know, I knew she was dead. I knew it, you know, I was semi-conscious, but I knew
 she was dead. You know, because he lost consciousness, wakes up, he's in a hospital getting
 wheeled somewhere, but still like, he's like, the only thing I knew was she was dead. And I said,
 how did you know that? And he goes, Luke, because when you're in that setting, when there's nothing to
 say, you, you say nothing. Because all they want to do is focus you on you surviving. Because if they
 tell you she's gone, maybe they lose you. And I, it's a, I can't help but think if it's like a
 metaphor for why the politicians, they don't know what to say. It goes back to like the, do you go up
 on the podium and tell people like, that's not going to make things. It's like they ask, hey,
 an asteroid's coming in. And if we don't blast it or handle it right, it's going to kill us all.
 Have a good day, right? How do you, and people say, well, it's, you know, it's not going to happen
 that fast. Okay, great. Maybe it doesn't happen that fast. But again, how many blockbuster
 video stores are there left in America? It used to be seven or eight thousand, I think. There's
 none. So we can debate, in my opinion, we can debate, you know, how fast are 7,000 blockbuster
 stores going to zero because of Netflix. But they're right now so much of the debate is still like,
 well, Netflix is never going to compete with blockbuster because they still, they're just sending
 DVDs in the mail. Who cares? And that's the exponential function people are missing. Oh, you know,
 blockbuster has all the stores, they've got the distribution, they have the relationships,
 and Netflix has no presence in their sending DVDs in the mail. And then just like that,
 bandwidth speeds got fast enough. And it was over that. That's what people, and I think that is
 what these tech, it's one, the guy who was running, you know, Guardian or guard at anthropic,
 like quit his job two weeks ago to go write poetry in the UK and disappear off the map, right? I
 think that's what just happened. He left it with a poem. Right, there's just debate around, well,
 it's never going to happen. It's never going to happen. Really? Yeah, then these are the same
 people who tell you never bet against technology, never bet against America, never bet against
 ingenuity, never bet against engineering. And like, oh, don't worry, this one, like these things
 are engineered to do. We can have the debate, okay, Luke, you're wrong, it's not three months or
 six months, it's 12 months, it's 18 months. Totally possible. Maybe it's 24, 36 months,
 totally possible, totally possible. It's still coming. It's coming. It's coming. It's coming.
 And tell me the right moment in time to start preparing for that asteroid if it is 24 months or
 36 months instead of six months or 18. It's still with the right time to prepare us today. It's
 still like, you can argue people won't see for another six to 12 months. And so they,
 maybe they won't do anything, but it's still common. And I mean, as a practitioner in markets,
 going, like, I don't have to worry about quarterly or monthly numbers. Like, I know what I'm doing.
 Like, I don't need to be right on the timing. I can look at central banks. I see what they're doing.
 They don't need to be right on the time. What are they doing? They're buying gold, like they're
 their lives depend on it. You know, it's, I don't know. It is a very, I mean, you have, you have a
 child, children, right? I've got three kids. They're all young adult men. What, like, the only
 thing I keep telling them is like, you're going to get knocked down. Things are going to get weird
 in the next three years, five years, 10 years. All I ever ask you is your father, when you get
 knocked down, get up, get up. Because if, like, and lean on us when you need it, whatever, but just
 I am, I get worked up because I see the level of complacency. I see the level of hubris. I see the
 and I'm just astonished by it. And, and I think it's a disservice to
 the average Joe's and Steve's. I tell you what I've done over the last three months, weirdly,
 in that I, in the, in not knowing what's coming and not knowing how to actually 100% prepare for it
 outside of hedging some positions, is that with my kids, I've tried to get across to them.
 The best thing you can be doing is kind of reading books, of reading history, and enjoying your time,
 and like my daughter, I'm like, I don't worry too much about your exam results anymore. I worry
 about how you, how you speak to other people, like how you interact with other people. I think
 that's your most important skill right now. And then personally, I've just started cooking dinner
 every evening and having a family dinner every evening. And I play tennis three times a week.
 I'm like, I can't prepare for this. So what I don't want to do is think, well, at least I could
 have spent some more time with the family and play some tennis, because if it's going to suck,
 I want to at least know I, I use this period of time well, because the time is scarce itself.
 Luke, so that's, that's where my head is at. But I do think this is the biggest risk that people
 are underestimating, despite all the interviews that people are giving and the public commentary,
 I think it's a huge risk. One thing I did want to ask you actually, because you mentioned
 Elon Musk, he was saying, don't even bother saving through your pension for 10 years. We're not
 even going to need money where we're going. And I can't even comprehend what he's trying to say
 with that. One is it because everything's so fucked up because we enter an age of abundance,
 we have to have a new measure and stick. I cannot get my head around it at all.
 I think it's the latter. I think it's the latter that ultimately there's this age of abundance.
 But when you think through what that really means, right? Like,
 let's take it to the extreme. Let's pretend every product that you access is free, everything.
 How does, how do all of the corporations who borrowed hundreds of billions of dollars mostly
 buy back stock in America over the last 20 years? How do they repay their debt? Well, do they even
 exist after that? If their products are all free. That's just, this is like, extremes inform the
 means, right? So I think, and I think a lot of times Elon talks in eventualities of extremes,
 and I think that's what he's saying. Well, if everything is free, then literally every American
 corporation has nothing to sell. They have no revenues, but they still have their debt. Well,
 guess what that means? The value of the equity is because capital structure 101 says the bond
holders get exactly zero. In an age of abundance, it's almost like a Schrodinger's
 finance, Schrodinger's, right? The stock market goes to zero and goes to infinity at the same time.
 Because if everything's free, the discount rate goes to zero and assets are worth infinity,
 but at the same time, capital structure 101, the balance sheet, equity zero, because the bondholders
 are going to say, hey, oh, you have no product anymore. But maybe they create new products in their
 side. So like, as people try to figure that out, you're going to see volatility. I think that's,
 like, we're in the very early days of that stock market. It's up 800 down 600 up 800. What do I do?
 You know, the Schrodinger's market. If everything's free, if nobody has jobs,
 let's even take it back. Let's take away from corporations, because I think that's very hard.
 Yeah, hard to visualize. How do you coordinate? How do you, but I even think, like, how do we coordinate?
 How do you decide who has what land? What property do you live in?
 Well, take a step back to, I think, a much harder example, which is
 52% of receipts in America are from employment. Employments, let's just say,
 great. Go on. Okay. Some big part. Again, let's take that number. Let's cut that number
 in half. So now the federal government is running at, you know, there's short receipts, 25%.
 So now just the interest plus the entitlements on the, on the, on the debt are, you know, what I say,
 25% is on half, 2.5. We're going to take that down by half, so 3.5, 3.5, 4. So we're going to have
 about five and a half trillion dollars in entitlements and interest over four 3.8 trillion in receipts.
 And that's just, you know, do they print the money? Do they not print the money?
 And there too, if they print the money, the bonds are worthless, are going to be worth a lot less
 on a real basis. And if they don't print the money, the bonds are literally going to default.
 Then that, but this is the sort of the stuff that near sort of Elon and I've seen, you know, as brilliant
 as he is, he sort of goes from here to here. He did it with those, right? I'm just going to cut
 to train. I remember going, are you high? You can't cut to a trillion. And like, and he was like, no, no, no.
 And if I had a nickel for every person who told me Elon, the, the Elon would figure it out. He's
 the smartest man and he is one of the smartest managers. And he's a brilliant businessman. And all these
 things, brilliant technologists. And I had six great math going, Elon is never going to get,
 and we were near cutting a trillion dollars. And I had so many people tell me, oh, he's going to
 be because he's Elon. Well, math is math. Same thing here. Math is math. Okay, great, Elon. We're
 going to get to there. City of London, when his cop, when, when a city of London cops pension fund,
 full of government bonds, either goes away in real terms or, you know, is, is marked on a real
 terms or is defaulted on. I mean, those cops show up for work. And when they show up for work,
 when that store gets robbed, what do they do? They're going to risk, you know, they're going to
 risk getting stabbed, not go home to their kids for a pension that no longer exists.
 And America, you get shot. There's no. And these are the, like, unless you've talked to people in
 other parts of the world where this kind of thing happened, you have no idea. Like we have friends
 who grew up in the former Soviet Union. They said, my family is a richest family in the village.
 And one night they close the banks two weeks later, they reopen them. We had enough in the money,
 you know, when they close the banks, we had enough money to buy five cars.
 When they reopen them, we had the same amount of money and it bought one month's groceries.
 And like, you know, the cops lose their pensions, you know, in real terms, what do the cops do?
 Simple. You got a badge, that car over there, hey, you got a broken tail light. No, I don't. Well,
 you better pay me a hundred bucks. You're going to have a broken tail light. What are you going to do?
 Attack a cop? You get killed. No. They just start shaking down people. Things get, you know,
 things get a lot less sort of safe, a lot less civilized there. These are the sort of inter-airry. Like
 in the land of plenty, how do we go from here to there?
 What does that mean for the sovereign bond market? What does the sovereign bond market mean for
 all of these, the real value of all these pensions? What does the real value of all these pensions
 falling mean for all of the services, the safety, the all of it? There is no thought going into
 the second and third derivative implications. There should be, but there's not. But it's a little
 one of these things like AIs of Iris. It's out there. Yeah, like there's no stop in this thing now.
 So I don't know, I'm talking a little bit stream of consciousness now.
 I think what Elon is ultimately saying is in the long run, all that paper is going to go away.
 You're either going to have energy or metal, right? You're going to have gold or Bitcoin?
 And that makes perfect sense to me. Comprint energy. Comprint gold.
 Right. Comprint Bitcoin. It's paradoxical. The most hyper-deflationary.
 We have a fiat debt-based system that requires inflation. And this is the most deflationary thing,
 maybe in 10,000 years. And the system won't survive it. And on the other side of clouds,
 it'll collapse. And you're going to eat gold, Bitcoin, you know, energy, you know, real assets.
 And we're starting to see a separation in that. But I saw that comment from Elon. It's a fascinating
 comment. It's how do we get there? Yeah. The path from here to there is not, it's not as, you know,
 you and me and the lion and the tin man and the straw man and Dorothy, you know, skipping our
 heels down the yellow brick road. It's not, you know, if you think that's how it's going to go,
 like I'd encourage you to read a history book. I think what you're doing, I think it's brilliant.
 Have them read real books. Have them build real relationships. Have them, you know,
 try to take a Dale Carnegie sales class, right? Like online, right? There's, there is no limit to,
 because if they're anything of my kids' generation, my boys are pretty good about it. They could
 always get a lot better. But they're face-to-face inter-peer personal skills because, you know,
 they got, you know, this bad boy, they're, they're, they're atrocious. They can't talk to people.
 So if you can talk to people, take a superpower if you're, if you're, you know, sort of a young,
 young, young adult. So anyway, I don't know. It's, yeah. It is, it's, it's fascinating and horrifying
 all at the same time. Yeah. Well, we live, we live it in the most interesting time. We get to live
 through it and see it. I think it's probably a good time to finish Luke. Unless there's anything else
 you want to do, add anything you want to be with. People are going to need like a warning to
 remove sharp objects and, you know, James Belushi or John Belushi, right? I mean, my recommendations
 you start drinking heavily, you know? I guess that wasn't published. She was if it was an otter.
 Probably, probably get a few more subscriptions to your newsletter. Probably a healthy time.
 Luke, listen, look, it's great to talk to you. I appreciate you giving me some time like this.
 You're one of the people I love to most in these challenging times for a little bit of a signal
 about what to do. And I think I'm going to be doing some rebalancing myself after this over the
 next few months. But thank you so much. Hopefully I'll see you in person at some point soon as well.
 I appreciate you having me on here. It's always great catching up. Really enjoyed it. And yeah,
 hopefully we'll get to catch up in person. It would be wonderful. Thank you. Take care. See you later,
 everybody.
