 All right, everybody. Welcome back to part two of the All in podcast episode 263. We promise you
 a part two because we are very lucky that my dear friend, Shervin Pishovar, was able to set up a
 very important historic interview for us today. None other than Prince Reza. Palavi is here and we
 have a limited amount of time with you Reza and may I call you Reza or should I call you Prince Reza?
 Bye. Thank you. Bye for having me on your program. It's great to have you and this is a moment I
 think you've been waiting 47 close to 50 years for which is we are at this moment in time looking at
 potentially the people of Iran being free. You left the country and when you were 17 years old to
 become a pilot and now you are looking to help your people with the transition post this military
 activity, this operation, essentially a war that's going on right now that we all hope gets resolved
 quickly. I think people would love to know what is your vision for Iran post this military action.
 Well, thank you again for the opportunity. Before I get into that, I wanted to simply stress the
 importance of this intervention that to us was like a rescue mission. It was literally a humanitarian
 intervention to protect more lives that would otherwise be lost under this extremely brutal
 and repressive regime that as you know has massacred us of late tens of thousands of innocent and
 unarmed citizens in order to equalize the playing field. This was a much needed intervention that a
 lot of Iranians asked for and fortunately it did happen. But what's the next step? Where are we
 headed to? The most obvious question would be wants to regime collapses. How do we manage the
 transition? I've stepped in to lead this transition with the help of many of my compatriots from
 various sectors. We believe that a stable transition will lead to a addressed immediate
 needs of the country, but then set the country on the path of redevelopment and reconstruction,
 which is of course something that we were always hoping for that could not have happened
 under this corrupt mafia-like regime. Iran should have been had it not been for the revolution
 today's South Korea of the region. Instead, it has become the North Korea of the region. Why?
 Not because our people are not gifted or talented or capable, not because we lacked natural resources.
 It's simply because of a corrupt bad management and a regime that basically took our country hostage,
 used it as a launching pad to export an ideology, and that's what we are here today.
 A different Iran, a democratic secular Iran, with first and foremost bringing about the
 opportunities to our nation, but it will open Iran for business again. Iran is one of the most
 untapped economic opportunities of the 21st century, and it could tremendously change the shape of our
 world in terms of what would be beneficial to the Iranian people, of course, but also from the
 vantage point of a country lacking in active states and billions of dollars that will be generated
 as a result of doing business in Iran. We figure about one trillion in the first 10 years
 to the U.S. market, but also billions of dollars that will be invested into Iran and everything
 that we need to have done in order to rebuild our country. These are crazy opportunities that
 we can look forward to, and it all starts with moving towards this recovery and transition.
 And when your father was in charge, it was a monarchy turned into a dictatorship,
 and to be clear, the hope now is to evolve into a democracy with free elections for the people,
 average age of people in Iran now, early 30s, 31, 32 years old. What would that look like?
 What is a possible timeline? And you have said on other programs and on your YouTube channel,
 which I suggest everybody go search for and follow right now because you're speaking directly to
 the people on X and on your YouTube channel. What is the condition on the ground from the people
 you're talking to? You said you've been talking to people in the military, civilians, and other
 leadership. They're ready to move on. What's the timeline? And what are they telling you is
 happening on the ground today as we sit here? Well, I think that now the playing field has been
 equalized, meaning that the people could finally, of course, awaiting the end of this campaign,
 have a better opportunity to re-engage the streets and take over their homeland.
 Of course, part of the equation is how much inclusion from within the regime and how much
 defections from the regime in the sense of joining with the people this time, and not be an instrument
 that will halt the people's progress, but instead help the people in that transition. Meaning,
 whether people are in the military or security forces, as well as a civilian bureaucracy.
 Unlike what happened after the fall of Saddam Hussein and debatification, the scenario of
 changing Iran is totally different. And let's not forget, Iran is a multiple-century old nation
 state. It's a country that is extremely unified and united for this common purpose.
 Under this tent, we have diverse groups that are joining in this national campaign. People who are
 on the right, the center, the left, monarchist, Republicans, ethnic groups, religious groups.
 Every sector of society is engaged. I have had tremendous amount of support coming from
 inside Iran. We have the support of the intelligentsia. We have the support of universities. We have
 the support of the working class. We have the support of the diaspora that can bring a lot
 to this equation. I think this is a good recipe that will allow us to manage this transition,
 but set the country to clean up, be ready for business, and create the opportunities that will
 finally impact first and foremost Iranians who have been starving as a result of this regime's
 corruption, but have a true opportunity to get back on track and improve their livelihood.
 And I think it's also good for those who partner with us in this process, because there's a lot
 to be done that will be win-win as opposed to be lose-lose to the benefit of this corrupt regime
 that has been the story of the past almost five decades. So the difference lies about
 this change and how crucial it is. And of course, the reason we want to have a secular democracy,
 the final form to be determined by the people who have been run through
 pre-elections and a constitutional process, but most importantly is that under equality and the
 rule of law, all the opportunities that has been denied our nation as a result of its discrimination,
 as a result of pretty much this surprising the majority of Iranians, now it creates a true
 opportunity. And as I said earlier, I think Iranians are quite gifted, as much as it is attractive
 to entrepreneurs in the outside world looking in, there are so many gifted and talented young
 Iranians who will have a fair chance, this time a true chance, for using all their creativity
 and genius to bring our country back online. This will be an excellent, fantastic partnership
 that we're looking forward to. So you've spoken about wanting to be on the ground there,
 what conditions and what timeline do you have for yourself? And this seems like a pretty
 high-risk thing to do, it would be pretty brave of you to go to the country now. What conditions
 have to be met for you to go to Iran to go home for the first time in 47 years? And how close
 do you think we are to the people taking the streets now and for starting this transition?
 Well, to be honest with this is very difficult to put an exact timeline. Factors that we'll
 expedite it is the level of separation from the regime, the level of defections, the strengthening
 of domestic organization, the structure. How can we partner with elements from within that are not
 joining this campaign? All of these are factors that will contribute to the rapidity of the transition.
 As far as myself being there, obviously there are security concerns to make sure that it's
 safe enough for me to go there. I'm no use to anyone if I'm dead. So obviously we have to keep
 that in mind. But I would like to be able to be there as soon as possible to be able to help as
 much as I can in this process. Obviously being in a country is an advantage. It's hard to do things
 from far away. I had no choice to be living in an exile because of the circumstances. But I think
 that the opportunity is presenting itself and the first opportunity that is created for me to
 safely return to Iran, I will obviously be there. Just this morning, Trump said there will be no deal
 in Iran until unconditional surrender is given by whatever is left of the government there.
 What do you think of that condition? Is that the right move? Do you agree with Trump's
 ultimate? Well, let me look at it from the domestic prison in order for a successful transition
 to occur. It has ultimately to be something that is legitimate in the eyes of the Iranian people.
 We have lost so many tens of thousands of lives just to settle for a continuity of the remnants of
 this regime. That will not fly. People will want to have a clean break. The alternative will be for
 all those who align with the secular democratic alternative. There are some four core principles
 that whoever adheres to that, including people who may today peel away from the regime,
 would be able to agree to work together on that platform. The first and foremost issue is of course
 Iran's territorial integrity. That's an issue that is very close to the hearts of millions of
 Iranians representing every aspect of our diversified country in terms of ethnicities,
 religions and what have you. But we find ourselves in this united cause under one flag and under one
 nation. The second element that is a prerequisite to democracy is a clear separation of religion from
 state. That's a critical element for a democracy to occur. Equality of all citizens under the law
 and the rule of law obviously is a critical aspect that guarantees all of the rights we're talking
 about. And the democratic process itself, meaning the fact that people can elect the representatives
 to go to this constitutional assembly to debate the issues of what the next system could look like
 and what its laws should be ratified by the people, which would bring us to the election of the
 first parliament of this new democracy. And of course the election of the first government
 of such democracy. At which point the transitional government hands over power to the elected
 representative of the people in the future government. That's pretty much the direction that we
 hope to manage this transition. And I'm playing a role in bringing about this transition with a vague
 well crafted plan that is in detail explaining particularly focusing on the first 100 days.
 I created an organization called IPP which is Iran Prosperity Project. But its first focus is
 the first 100 days. How we immediately stabilize the situation in Iran. How can we maximize the remaining
 elements that will join with us to be able to survive regime change and have a place in the future.
 These are the first components and then we move forward with the plan.
 Two quick questions. Under no circumstances would that be a monarchy? I think is a question
 everybody has for you because you're the prince. This is a democracy. We don't have princes in
 democracies. And then number two, what do you ideally see as your role in the transition?
 And then would you like to have the opportunity to run for president and to lead the country out
 of this horrific nightmare of 47 years? My focus is on the process, not the outcome. And as a neutral
 arbiter I'm not taking sides with one form versus the other. That's for the people of Iran to choose.
 And I think the world has seen successful models in both a Republican system and a monarchy system.
 Examples, a republic that you have like in India or like in Israel or in France or the United
 States are not exactly the same but that's under the republican structure. In terms of parliamentary
 monarchies we have the example of Japan, Sweden, Spain, other countries. So I don't think that
 necessarily you can equate democracy with one outcome in particular. It could be both
 models that people can emulate. So at the end of the day, you know, again, it's up for me to choose
 the outcome. I'm here to be a bridge towards that outcome. That's the function of a transitional
 leader. Not to run for office or not to have an aim for personal position or power or authority.
 But to be the element that unites the country towards a common purpose and allow the nation to
 decide what is their preferred system. That's what elections and free elections should be all about.
 And the ballot box is the only means to measure people's opinion and the majority.
 I will decide on that and that's the process that I would visit to bring about.
 What do you believe the people of Iran want? And in that monarchy subset, there are the Gulf
 monarchies, the kingdom, UAE, Qatar. They are obviously distinctly different than a parliamentary
 system. So I assume you wouldn't want to see that. What do you think the people of Iran will
 vote for? Well, just what you said. I mean, a democratic system clearly outlines how it should be
 and how it should not. I mean, if you want to look at the closest monarchy to the United States,
 technically speaking, it's Canada. And if you want to look at that way, and I think Canadians
 are quite happy with the democracy that they enjoy. And again, we have very good models of
 Republic. Case in point to the United States. At the end of the day, as I said, it's for the
 Iranian people to determine what would be in their best interests having looked this time
 unlike what happened, by the way, 50 years ago. Nobody had a clear idea what Khomeini was suggesting
 in terms of this fellow yet a faculty as they call it or the tutelage of the supreme leader.
 By the time Titu Kovar and Tower was established, it was too late. And since then, we've been
 hostage to this regime. This time in full transparency, Iranian people ought to have a clear idea
 of different models presented to them. And on that basis, having understood every aspect of what
 it could be, then they make their choice. This is a process that should be totally transparent,
 with enough time for debating different ideas. And again, as I said, let the democratic process
 unfold and let the people vote in majority. What is their final choice? I'm not here to determine
 an outcome. Again, I stress my role here is to manage this transition and create an opportunity
 that people have been deprived of for half a century to finally have a say as to what they would
 like to have for themselves in terms of sovereignty and determining their own future democratically.
 Final question, and I'll get into a bunch of details with you, Shervin, as to the plan,
 which I know you're helping construct and I'm assuming you'll help execute on Trump.
 Says he's going to pick the next leader. Trump says a lot of things. He says them sometimes in a
 provocative way, but he said he's not sure how you would play within your own country. There's
 obviously people holding up your picture. There are people who are maybe vying to take control of
 this from the previous administration. Are you in touch with President Trump? And what's your
 relationship with him today? What's your best flee to him or your argument to him to work with you?
 Look, there's nothing hidden in the agenda. Everything is transparent and I've been
 communicating with the administration by Steve Whitkov, who announced it publicly. That's
 what's our channel to President Trump. And of course, on the other side, in the legislation
 with members of Congress, senators and Congress people, to understand a little bit from the American
 prison, what it is that we are proposing here. I don't think that President Trump or any other
 leader in this world would presume that it is up to them to determine who should be the next leader
 in Iran. I'm sure as democracies, they respect the right for people to make that choice.
 And as Western democracies, it should be going without saying that they would believe that
 the right to choose the future leaders is only up to the Iranian people.
 If the intention is to assist that process, if the intent is to support the Iranian people
 in their democratic aspiration, you provide them with the help, but the choice should be theirs.
 That has been my position. And I don't think there's a disagreement on that, whether it is with
 President Trump or other leaders that I've also talked to about this matter.
 As I let you go, what should the American people know about the spirit, the culture,
 and the people of Iran, including the people who fled in 1979, like you and your family?
 Well, I know many Americans will have many Iranian friends. As a matter of fact, if you just
 look at the Iranian diaspora in the United States alone, you will see how much interaction that
 is between Iranians who are now Iranian Americans, if you will, many of them. And the kind of
 relationship that are built with the American counterpart, many people have connections via
 marriages, many people have connections through business affiliations, many people have worked with
 Iranians, many of the high tech companies, including Silicon Valley, employ so many Iranians,
 or themselves entrepreneurs. This is the kind of potential, and I'm sure Shervin will talk
 to you more about that. But this is the kind of connections there is. And for Americans that have
 traveled to Iran or have known Iranians all these years, they know what country represents,
 what amount of culture, arts, I mean, civilization, in a true sense, Iranians represent.
 And they've been completely suffocated under this regime. But once Iran is free from its shackles,
 I'm sure a lot of Americans know what difference there is between an Iran that wants to be
 friends with America, that is not a regime that has from its inception called Death to America,
 or Death to Israel, for instance. But there are Iranians who actually love to America. Let me
 just give you a last parting thought, because I think every now and then I need to remind
 your audience and other audiences. We talked about other countries in the region. Remember 9/11?
 Yes. And how many people on the streets of many of the so-called allies of the United States
 were celebrating that attack on that sinister day? The only country in the entire world and
 the entire region that actually stood in candlelight vigils and sympathy to the victims of the 9/11
 terrorist attacks were no other than the Iranian people themselves holding candlelight vigils
 in Iran. And they've been messaging America for years now. We are not your enemies. In fact,
 they've been chanting slogas in Iran saying they lied to us as America. Our enemy is right here.
 This is the Iran I'm talking about. This is the people I'm talking about. And I know many
 Americans, both in the civilian sector, including military forces in America, know that. And I think
 that's something that I'm sure I'm not the only one talking about this. You will hear from other
 Iranians who will pretty much confirm what I just said. That's why this partnership is so vital
 for us because together we'll be able to rebuild a different world. Iran will bring an element of
 stability to the region and beyond. And that can only play to the interest of America itself.
 We need to have this vital partnership. And I think we'll be able to succeed because I see
 everybody now is very much committed to work together towards bringing this agenda forward.
 We're all praying for the people of Iran to have a democracy and what an amazing moment will be
 when you get to return in whatever capacity and help this transition. And 93 million people
 who have been suffering will be living free in a democracy and the impact that could have on
 the world. And obviously that region would be by far the largest democracy in the Middle East.
 And this could have ramifications in terms of humanity that would be absolutely stunning and
 beautiful. And the prosperity would be amazing. The Iranian people I met in my life, Prince,
 when I was living in Los Angeles, all of these great persons I would meet were some of the most
 joyful and industrious, beautiful individuals I've met. They remind me of my Greek and Irish heritage,
 including you, Shervin. So Prince, Resid, thank you so much for your time. I know you're extremely
 busy. It's very important for the all-in audience to hear from you and to understand what's going on
 in your vision. And we would love to have you back when you're on the ground with your people and
 that your people are free. Thank you again. Looking forward to it. All right, Shervin. Thank you so
 much for setting this up. Of course. I asked for very few favors for my friends. But as a good
 friend, you made this happen for the all-in-community so I thank you for that. And as I said to the Prince,
 the people and the Persians here in the United States, maybe you can tell us a little bit about your
 story and what this means to you. And then we can get into your involvement here and what you hope
 to see in those first hundred days. Of course. First of all, Jason, thank you for opening up this
 tremendous platform to the Iranian people and to the Prince. As you can see, the Crown Prince,
 Resipology is a great man, the most courageous man that I've ever met and he's the highest integrity
 human I've met as well. We're very blessed as a people to have a leader like him who has lived
 a very clean life and has it lived stepped up in a very courageous ways, but it all on the line
 for his people and his legacy to play this tremendous transitional role to evolve the Iranian nation
 to a democracy. And this long nightmare of 47 years that all of my Iranian brothers and sisters
 have suffered through is almost over. And also a tremendous gratitude to President Trump
 for his courageous leadership on this matter. I don't think any other president would have
 the courage and the principle and the values to take on this Islamic regime of terror.
 As you saw last month, they massacred over 43,000 Iranians who were just peacefully protesting.
 They gunned them down with anti-material bullets. I put a post of a Coca-Cola can next to
 these bullets. It was bigger than a can. This is super important to meditate on for a second here.
 This regime is a murderous and evil regime to turn those guns and moat down 40,000
 into over 40,000 individuals peacefully protesting is just an act of savagery and brutality that I
 think most people don't appreciate and or don't fully appreciate. There hasn't been enough coverage
 of that fact. And you are a bipartisan type person. I've known you for many years. You were
 a super funder of Obama. He wasn't able to get this done. Biden wasn't able to get this done.
 Bush wasn't able to get this done. This has been something that presidents have struggled with.
 And you got to give Trump credit here. There's a lot of debate over why this is happening.
 Is it Israel driving it? Is it the relationship with China? We talked about it in part one.
 At the end of the day, as a son of Iran, what matters is that the people are free. All these other
 conspiracy theories and motivations do not matter to you or the people. Yeah. Absolutely not.
 But one of my key principles is our moral security presages our physical security. So this
 has as much to do with Americans security as it does Iranians security and livelihood.
 As you saw, this regime is not only evil enough to mow down 43,000 innocent people in 48 hours.
 Their reaction to this liberation operation is to attack over 12 countries in the region.
 Imagine if they had a nuclear bomb, they would use it. There's not even a doubt in my mind that
 they would have used it by now if they had it. So this is incredibly important for America's
 national security as the Prince mentioned 9/11 happened. That's the same kind of ideology except
 the problem we have in our modern time is that basically criminal and terrorist organizations have
 taken over sovereign nations with nuclear bombs or seeking nuclear bombs wherever you have Russia,
 China, you have North Korea, and you have Iran, and then you have Venezuela. So the president is not
 only gotten rid of the Maduro in Venezuela. He has now begun this process of dismantling this
 Islamic regime who is absolutely not a legitimate government and not a legitimate nation state.
 And the only leader that is legitimate to lead us to a transition process to become a democracy
 is the Crown Prince Resipality. We are very lucky, I think, in our modern times to have three
 leaders who are living at the same time and leading at the same time as President Trump,
 President Netanyahu, Prime Minister Netanyahu, and the Crown Prince Resipality. All in this one
 moment in time, I think we're living in biblical times when 10/7 happened. I started the Israeli
 Iranian alliance with Michael Eisenberg, Michael Bufayn, Justin Matin, Sean Rad, and we started to
 host these salons with the Crown Prince. One was in New York, Michael Eisenberg flew in Dan Lowe,
 lots of leaders came, and that was the beginning of the process that was seated with a breakfast with
 Michael Eisenberg as a VC and the number one VC in Israel 15 years ago where we said we have to do
 more between Israeli and Jewish community and the Persian Iranian community, and someday we're
 going to have tea and taran, and we wrote an op-ed last year about this, and we began to build
 these bridges, and this connection between the Jewish people and the Iranian people goes
 back 2,500 years, Cyrus the Great, who is in the Bible, freed the Jews from slavery and Babylon,
 returned them to their homeland in Jerusalem and rebuilt their temple, and he is celebrated for
 that courageous act in the Bible and in Jewish religious holidays, and it is a tremendous connection
 that goes back now 2,500 years later in biblical symmetry. You have the Jewish people helping free
 Iranian people from their slavery, and at the same time, there is a connection between America's
 beginning that many people don't know is that Thomas Jefferson was a student of Cyrus the Great,
 who declared the first declaration of human rights, and a lot of the principles that went into
 the Declaration of Independence of America and the founding of America and the Bill of Rights
 and the Constitution have its roots in Cyrus the Great and Persian history, and so this connection
 between America's founding and the principles that Iranians espoused for 2,500 years is this beautiful
 connection between the Jewish people, the American people and the Iranian people. And this could have
 such a tremendous impact on region, you have essentially a lone democracy in Israel and now to have
 93 million Iranians in a democracy, if that can be achieved and listen, there's a long way to go,
 this could spiral out of control, this was a very high risk move by Trump, President Trump,
 so you give him a lot of credit for that, but he has to own this, so let's be humble and we've got
 to pray for the best here, things can spiral out of control in these kind of situations,
 but let's hope that we do get to democracy there, I'm curious, Shervin, you spent a lot of time
 in the Middle East, I have over the last three years gotten myself educated and caught up, I hope,
 and have started doing business there and really meeting a larger swath of people. The Gulf
 monarchies have modernized incredibly, starting with the UAE, Saudi now, the Kingdom and of course,
 Qatar as well, modernizing, Oman, Kuwait, what would Iran going straight to a democracy,
 if that is even possible, what would that do to the region in your mind?
 I think that everything, what the Gulf countries have done is a tremendous case study of what the
 potential for the Middle East truly is, being blessed by God to have oil, gas, the way the most
 GCC countries have and Iran so has, gives them an advantage to be able to have the resources
 independently to develop themselves, and when you look at what happened in UAE over the last 25
 years, I went to UAE in 2001, 2002, and there was a smattering of buildings there.
 Yeah, seeing the pictures of Dubai, the Indian now. It's incredible, and it reminds me of what
 America was like in the 1950s, when they came from back from World War II, Eisenhower built the
 interstate highway system, and America developed into this superpower, and in many ways, the GCC
 countries espoused that American mentality of everything is possible, anything is possible,
 and they've manifested their greatness, and you look at Iran, you have 93 million, unbelievably
 brilliant people who have been held back. You look at the Iranian diaspora in America,
 just our fellow friends who you may, no, Dara, my self at Uber, of course,
 Omid Khorstani at Google, and Ali at Databricks, you know, Pieroli, Maduro at eBay,
 when you add up the numbers, it gets the trillions of dollars of value have been created by this
 small population of Iranians in America, especially in Silicon Valley, and I've been blessed to be
 part of that circle, and one thank God for America that we had a safe sanctuary to come and develop
 our brilliance, but there are as many as many brilliant Iranians, way more brilliant Iranians.
 Yeah, on a numbers basis, it's a magnitude more.
 And so this will be a free democratic Iran, will be the greatest peace dividend and economic
 dividend to be gifted to the world and to the region. So I think what will happen is we will
 have an acceleration of the Middle East becoming this unbelievable a place where innovation and
 investment in the future is happening, we're at the dawn of AGI and advanced superintelligence,
 we have quantum computing, which you and I, you know, and Emil Michael and others have done with
 our, you know, our, our SPAC and D wave, these technologies are going to fast forward humanity
 and being able to tap into the resources of the Middle East and Iran in human capital and in
 oil and gas wealth to be able to unleash an accelerated future is something that we all look
 forward to. And one of the things the team, the Crown Prince's vision, this is 175 page report
 right here, the Iran Prosperity Project. And I'm blessed to be an advisor there with many other
 very talented Iranians. And this peace by peace month by month has a sequence of plans to rebuild
 Iran as the Crown Prince was talking about so that when there is a free Iran, there will be a
 four month process to get to a referendum. And then a six month process to assemble Iranians
 to write a constitution. And then a 14 month process to actually finalize the constitution
 and then have a vote on the constitution. So you'll have a sequence of events that will then
 lead to a legal framework where the new Iran will be able to actually execute on this, on this
 tremendous plan and rebuild all aspects and all sectors of the economy. And that'll lead to,
 you know, this new Iran that we're all have been dreaming and praying for.
 And so this plan has been worked on for some time. He seems like he's got, you know, a third or so
 of the constituents there who are in favor of him. There are some people who strongly opposed.
 Last time his father was not perfect. He's answered many of the hard questions about his father's
 tenure. Where are the chances that the existing regime, what's left of it? There are people in
 that who would collaborate on moving to a democracy where specifically religion and the government
 were separated. This was something MBS was able to do in Saudi, but not without strong resistance
 and great risk to himself. This is a high risk thing, you know, with some of these radicalized
 individuals who want religion to rule over democracy. So maybe you can unpack that a bit.
 Absolutely. The vast majority of Iranians want a separation of the church and state of
 mosque and state. And we've seen what 47. We've had an AB test in Silicon Valley speak of what
 happens when you have a system that is controlled by Mullahs. It is led to absolute disaster and mayhem
 and evil. And so the vast majority are out there. And they're saying Reza Paolovi's name. If you
 look at the videos from January, they're saying Javi Chaud, they're saying his name to return. He called
 on them to come in the streets at 8 p.m. on the Aiphon knife. And they came out in droves and buy
 the millions in response to them. So the idea that we don't know who the Iranian people want
 to help lead this transition process, the proof is in the pudding. You just have to look at the
 videos and look at the actual facts. And that's the only leader that Iranians are by name calling
 out for to come back. And they're also calling for Trump and Netanyahu to please help save them
 from this terror regime. And as we've seen in the last week, their prayers have been answered
 in a tremendous way. And what is going to happen is basically a dismantling and a defanging of
 this regime's capabilities to use terror, to use their military capabilities. And we have to let
 that run its course. As the president said, this is probably about four weeks of work.
 There was a leak. I think of the Washington Post today that the 82nd Airborne was activated.
 And that's a signal that this is going to potentially lead to even more support in this liberation
 operation to completely dismantle this regime. Defections are a big part of the strategy.
 Have the defection started yet? Or is that too risky for the individuals on the ground? What
 are you hearing through your back channels? Well, the crown prince had a system for people to
 communicate securely with him and his team. And over 50,000 people in the military have actually
 responded to that. You saw some defections that were when viral during the protests and before
 the protests of different military members. We expected that as the dismantling process continues.
 And many of the, as you saw, the top leadership that the IRGC was eradicated in the first 24 hours.
 The Supreme Leader Hominay was just an absolutely evil man who was gone in the first 60 seconds.
 He spent 47 years threatening the world. He lasted 60 seconds.
 And that's going to continue. And so I think it's going to be a very rational thing for the rest of
 who remains to realize that if they don't actually have a complete surrender and capitulate,
 and for the ones that haven't actually executed the orders of genocide against the Iranian people,
 there'll be an opportunity for people to actually be a part of the Reformation and the Reconstruction
 of Iran. The plan actually says even people in the military will be able to one either have
 early retirement for the ones that didn't actually execute those acts of terror against the Iranian
 people. And then others who are talented and have the ability to serve and want to serve,
 they'll also be able to show up at work and continue to get paid and have some role
 whether in the military and the government. So this isn't going to be a hunting down of people.
 The hunting down is happening right now. There'll be a process of peace and Reconstruction
 and rehabilitation that'll happen. And we're going to also need to have a lot of like, you know,
 specialists to come in and help people with the trauma that they've been through. Sure.
 47 years. This will be a multiple multi-threaded... Multi-generation trauma, yeah.
 Multi-generational, yes. Tell me about the Kurds being backed who saw it and the CIA are backing
 reportedly militias in the West. And that's going to play a role, yeah.
 I think, you know, we have to be very, very careful because a red line for the Iranian people
 is we have existed as a country for five thousand years as a people for five thousand years.
 Wherever invaders came in or we always outlasted our invaders, these people who have taken over
 for 47 years were occupiers. They weren't really truly Iranians. They were occupiers of this country.
 And they'll be booted just like Ganges Khan and everyone else who came into Iran were booted.
 And so it's very important. If there's any kind of separatist movement,
 we will lose the goodwill and the support of millions and millions of Iranians.
 And so it has to be one country, you know. It has to be one country. The territorial integrity of Iran
 must be protected. That's a red line for the Crown Prince. It's a red line for the Iranian people.
 And so that's incredibly important to project that. Whether there's collaborations that can happen
 to be able to work together to fight for the deliberation to be completed. And for March on to
 Tehran and the Crown Prince being able to come back to lead this transition and physically come
 back to his home. I imagine that after 47 years of being away from his nation, me being away from
 my mind. You've never been able to go back or have you snuck in and visited back for, you know,
 what basically I was born in 1976. My dad, the last shot was sending a lot of the top
 brilliant people and scholarships around the world. The Iranian community and graduate school
 in universities was the largest population in the 1970s. He was educating this whole
 class of people. And we were going back to rebuild and build Iran into this great nature.
 We're at the cusp of greatness. So my father came to Washington, DC, where I am right now,
 and I grew up here on 16th Street in Washington. And he got his master's degree at Catholic
 University, 1976 in 1978. And I remember when we first came, it was a bicentennial of America.
 Yeah, 1957 University. And so he returned, we returned to Iran in 1978, right before the
 revolution, really bad timing. And my dad had been promoted to head of radio intelligence for
 the Shah. And this all happened, the revolution happened. Commanding was coming back. And my dad
 made the courageous decision to help the US Embassy get radio communications devices to them,
 do foreign language broadcasts to tell foreigners in Iran how to get out of the country.
 This was from the different embassies. And Homanian Hominay put my father Abraham on the execution
 list. So he went into hiding for 10 months. I didn't see my dad for 10 months. And in kind of
 a kismid moment, as someone he helped get a job in radio intelligence, came to my, our home and
 said to my mom, I want to help. And she didn't trust them and said, I don't know where he is,
 but she checked with my dad. And then they came back. And my dad said, no, you can trust him.
 And that guy was the new head of security for the mayor, Mayor Tabad airport in Iran. And he
 personally met my father. And I remember this moment, I woke up to my brother crying. And my dad
 was at the door after 10 months to say goodbye, because he didn't know if he was going to survive.
 And he went to the airport, met his friend and he walked him onto the air france flight.
 And, you know, crying, he flew out and came to America. And the people he had helped help him
 get his papers and everything in order. And then we were stuck in Iran for two years. Saddam
 invaded. Bombs were falling on us every night. And the seconds were going off. So then we escaped
 with my mom and my brother and sister came to America with $35. My dad was driving a taxi while
 getting his PhD, my dad, my paradox. I was like, yeah, I did it. Actually, I was one of the things
 of my first meeting with Jason with with Travis. I told him that story. And I know that like
 growing up in an orange and black taxi cab in Washington DC helped me win the Uber deal against
 all the greats and venture. Yeah. You know, it's all a full circle. Only in America would that be
 possible. You know, the son of a taxi driver and a maid coming to America with nothing,
 be able to have the blessing of the life that we've had. And I've never forgotten those routes.
 I've tried to serve America. And I'm, you know, now helping in any way that I can to help the
 Crown Prince in this transition process for a free Iran and rebuild Iran into something great.
 So maker what's extraordinary to me about the Iranian people is they have maintained even under
 this oppression that spirit. 47 years later, I don't know if you've ever seen the Anthony
 of Bourdain. Yeah. You know, episode when he goes there. Yeah. And it was always touch me. I
 don't know if it was like a decade ago when he did it. And he said, I can't believe it. These
 people are Americans. They're they're eating pizza hut. They're listening to music. They're
 having some beers on their back porch. They're dancing. They are on VPNs, you know, understanding
 culture and what's going on around the world, even under the oppression, women, gays,
 everybody in between. They're suffering and they're still have that joy of life that every
 Persian I've ever met will stay with you like the Greeks or the Irish and they will close the
 restaurant. They will talk in the restaurant closes the door. The owner of the restaurant sits down
 and you just talk for another hour. Some of the most beautiful people I've ever met. And it's just,
 I'm so glad that you are engaged in this. Very much appreciate you bringing the prince here today.
 We understand the soul of the Iranian. And that is it really we love to host our friends on the
 social and and you know, they're truly are as American as you can be. We love our freedom. We've
 suffered for so long and we're so thankful for President Trump having having the courage to
 take on this evil regime. And we look forward to hosting all in pod in Tehran. That would be
 sooner than later. One of the great bucket lists of my life to be able to go to Tehran and host
 the podcast there and have tea with you in Tehran. Let's put it on the schedule. You're from today.
 That's good and in the world. I can't wait. What's the signature for you? What's the signature
 dish? What's that? What's your favorite? Everyone loves the Persian kebabs, right? But the kebabs in
 Iran are something else. There's like, it's a tremendous, you know, food culture. And the
 national dish is called Ormisabzi, which is a stew of lamb. And my mom was like the greatest
 Persian cook in the world. And she would cook it for three days. And these foods, I can't wait
 to break bread with you in a free. It'll be. Yeah. I mean, that's one of the things the Greeks
 and the Iranian share is that love of lamb. Oh, cannot wait. All right, my brother.
 Thank you. I'm so glad you're engaged in this. Give me hope. And
 good luck in the next three, four, five weeks. Let's hope and pray for the best. Thank you.
 To the all in audience, we'll see you next time. Bye-bye.
 We should all just get a room and just have one big huge or two because they're all
 'cause it's like this like sexual tension that they just need to release that out.
 (upbeat music)
